
                           DE CAMP GENEALOGY.
                            Laurent De Camp,
                                   OF
                       NEW UTRECHT, N. Y., 1664,
                                  AND
                            HIS DESCENDANTS.


                              COMPILED BY

                      GEORGE AUSTIN MORRISON, JR.

[Illustration]

                             ALBANY, N. Y.:
                    JOEL MUNSELL’S SONS, PUBLISHERS,
                                 1900.




                                PREFACE.


                                               NEW YORK, _May 22d, 1900_

In compiling the genealogical history of Laurent De Camp, an early
Huguenot emigrant to the New Netherlands, and his descendants, I have
been actuated not only by the desire to perpetuate the memory of the
first American ancestor of an old New Jersey family, but also to
preserve for future generations manuscript records rapidly
disintegrating and in many cases inaccessible to the general public. The
early French and Dutch church records in New York and New Jersey have,
with few exceptions, remained unprinted and have been so carelessly kept
that the writings have almost faded away. To add to my difficulty the
puzzling method adopted by the ignorant Dutch clerks of entering the
French name “De Camp” in its Dutch equivalents “Van Camp” and “Van
Campen” has necessitated a long and thorough search against each name in
order that no important fact concerning the De Camp family, so
erroneously recorded, might be overlooked. Throughout this search I have
found no evidence to prove the “De Camp” and “Van Campen” families
identical or even related in any degree. I have further had to struggle
against a curious apathy among the present “De Camps” concerning their
origin and in several cases an absolute refusal to furnish the slightest
information about their immediate generation.

The result of six years’ labor is contained in these pages, and I trust
the data collected may prove of value to those interested in the
subject, and spur them on to further research.

Some mistakes will doubtless be found throughout the work, but all
criticism and correction will be warmly welcomed and any additional
information gratefully received.

                      GEORGE AUSTIN MORRISON, JR.
                   691 Fifth avenue, New York, N. Y.




                          THE DE CAMP FAMILY.


When the Catholic party, headed by Catherine di Medici, culminated years
of cruel persecution with the massacre of the French Protestants on St.
Bartholomew’s Day, 24th August, 1572, a number of the surviving
Huguenots fled for safety to the Netherlands and England. In many cases
the name of illustrious families disappear forever from the records of
France only to reappear in and flourish under the protection and
religious toleration of the Dutch and English nations. Between the years
1572 and 1620 the names of many of the French refugees underwent a
change suitable to the environment and in some cases became so Dutch in
character that it is extremely difficult to trace them back to the
original French. The curious custom so prevalent in the Netherlands of
using no surname and designating as “Laurence, the son of John,”
(Laurens Jansen) if such was the father’s Christian name, renders the
task of the genealogist still more complicated, and when added to the
fact that localities and towns of the same derivative designation exist
both in France and Holland (as the hamlet of “Camps” in France and the
villages of “Campen” in the Netherlands and Denmark), it is small wonder
that the greatest confusion prevails as to the ancestral source of many
early New Amsterdam families. As early as 1650 the names of “De Camp,”
“Van Kamp” and “Van Campen” appear on the church and State records of
New Amsterdam and the surrounding towns. It was long supposed that these
three families were closely related, if not identical, but a critical
examination of the records not only of the parents and children, but
also of the baptismal sponsors, carries the conviction that the “De
Camp” and the “Van Campen” families were of different origin and
nationality. Almost all the original “De Camp” settlers who can
positively be identified and traced as such were recorded in the Dutch
church records of New Amsterdam, Brooklyn, Flatbush, New Utrecht, and
Staten Island, under the names “Van Kamp” and “Van Campen” by the clerks
of the above several parishes. It is only after the year 1710 that the
name begins to be written correctly as “De Camp” or “D’Camp” on the
church records.

At first it was theorized that some of the early “Van Campen” settlers
were originally members of the “De Camp” family, basing the presumption
upon the repeated recording of the name of “De Camp” in its Dutch
equivalent, but upon classifying and comparing the names of the several
sponsors at the baptism of the “De Camp” and “Van Campen” children, the
strongest evidence is found to sustain the statement that the two
families were nowise related by blood or marriage, the one being of
French and the other of Dutch origin. As a matter of general interest,
however, and for the sake of more complete record some few facts
concerning the “Van Campen”[1] family are given in the foot-notes and
the genealogical student can thus verify the above statement and draw
his own conclusions. Every effort has been made by the compiler to trace
the “De Camp” name in France, but a thorough search in the archives of
the “Bibliotheque Nationale” at Paris, and of the Department du Pas de
Calais at Arras, fails to disclose any information of direct bearing
upon the American families of “De Camp.” For the purpose of record
however, the following facts may be of interest. The name “De or Du
Camp, Camps and Campe,” also “Decamp” appear in the records of the
cities of Laon, Rosay, Rouen, Caen, Montauban, and Camp (a small hamlet
near Abbeville) of France, and in the archives of the cities of Lausanne
and Geneva of Switzerland.

TRISTAN and PIERRE DE CAMP of Lusigran de la Cabé les Pezenas, district
of Beziers, were received as inhabitants of Geneva on 7th January 1555.

JEAN DE CAMP, a saddler, was killed at Rouen during the St. Bartholomew
massacre, August 1572.

NOEL DE CAMP, a nobleman, Seigneur de La Boudrie, was received as an
inhabitant at Geneva on 4th September 1572.

JEAN DE CAMP, a native of Montauban, setting out from Moulins (about
1572) with two gentlemen, was seized and hung near that city, with his
companions.

JEAN DE CAMP, going from Tours, received a passport on 2d July 1590.

MARTHE (DE) CAMP de Bombelles, born of a good family of Montauban,
married a Catholic officer in the “Desert,” who wasted her marriage
portion and then abandoned her, alleging under the then law that his
marriage with a Protestant was a nullity. The unfortunate woman was
supported by a family named “Van Robais” and her daughter “Charlotte”
later married one of that name.

DANIEL DE CAMP, son of Paul de Camp, a merchant at Sedan and Marthe de
La Croix, was born about 1643, and became minister at Laon. He married
at Charenton on 11th June 1673, Marie, daughter of Mathew Roguin and
Margarite Bolduc. He was a member of the Synod of Ile de France on 26th
August 1677, and minister of the church at Roncy 1677–79.

MOSES DE CAMP, of Montauban, was a student at the faculty of the town in
1657. He became pastor of Mazamet 1659–68; was imprisoned several times
in 1665 for refusing to salute the Sacrament when passing in the street;
he died in February 1668.

MARIE DE CAMP, of La Rochelle, widow, aged 49 years, with two children,
was naturalized at London as Mary de Camp on 21st November 1682, and was
assisted there 1702–06.

PIERRE DE CAMP, of Pary le Monial in the Duchy of Burgundy, was received
as a refugee with others at Lausanne on 21st August 1688. He was a
copper-smith and died there on 1st March 1705 aged 64 years.

LAURENT DE CAMP was Seigneur of Bernoville (Picardie or Normandie) in
1746.[2]

There appears to have been a large family of “Du Campe” located in the
neighborhood of Boulogne from 1475, but it is uncertain whether they
were of same family as the Protestant “De Camps.”

HUCHON DU CAMP owned a fief in the county of Boulogne in 1477.

JEHENNET DU CAMP owned an estate at Wissant prior to 1500.

THOMAS DU CAMP owned an estate at Luberg in 1505.

HENRI, JEANNE, ROBIN AND ANTOINETTE DU CAMP held fiefs at Engouasant in
1553.

FRANCOIS DU CAMP was prosecutor and counsellor in the Seneschal’s Office
at Boulogne in 1558.

ANTOINE DU CAMP, son of John and ANTOINE DU CAMP, son of Robert,
declared their fiefs at Boulogne in 1572.

WILLIAM DU CAMP held a fief at Maninghen-les-Wimille in 1575.

MARGUERITTE DU CAMP, daughter of Guillaume Du Camp and Francoise Noel,
living at Lianne, parish of Allingthun, married on 21 May, 1631, Jehan
Flahaut, son of Nicholas Flahaut and Leonarde Lambert, living at Laires.

ANTOINE LE FEBURE, SIEUR DU CAMP du Rien, living at Wierre-au-Bois, son
of Antoine Le Febure (husband of 2d wife Peronne Damiens), married on 28
October, 1631. Suzanne Caullier, daughter of Jean Caullier and Marye
Frutier, living at Boulogne.

In “Recherche Genealogiques sur les contés de Boulogne, etc., Tome I.,
pp. 312,” is mentioned a family of “Du Campe” in Boulogne who had the
arms on a shield of silver, two bars, red. The ancestry is as follows:

“JEAN ROLANT DU CAMPE, married to Marie de Euyl, was the father of
_Martin_, 1482; ——, of Bois-le-Duc, father of _Robert_, married at
Montreuil in 1538 first to Helene Gressier, daughter of Antoine and
Peronne du Camp and second to Jacqueline Le Bois (remarried to Gabriel
de Lozieres). He had by his first marriage _Nicholas_, Sieur de Hubert,
who married at Montreuil in 1569 Laurence de Lozieres, the daughter of
his stepmother, whence he had issue _Francois_ and _Jeanne_, the wife of
Jean Le Vasseur. _Francois_, Sieur de Cambremont, married in 1617
Jacqueline Lesseline, daughter of Pierre, Sieur de La Malotterie,
captain and high bailiff of Samer, and Agnes Bertrand, and had issue
_Philippe_ and _Louis_, priest of the Oratory of Boulogne.

“_Philippe_, Sieur de Tardinghen and Longueville, musketeer of the king,
attached to the regiment of the marines, married at Calais 24 February,
1672, Adrienne Marguerite Lepigault, daughter of Nicolas, Sieur de
Vertesalle, mayor and judge-consul of Calais, and Jeanne Pollart
(Nobillaire de Rousseville), and had issue _Louis_, esquire, Sieur of
Tardinghen, Ostove, Longatte, La Teutrie and Noir-Bonningue, who
purchased in 1710 the estates of Frency and Rosamel paying 46,050 pounds
for the inheritance of Monseigneur Augustine de Gouffier, Count of
Rosamel. He married in 1696 Antoinette Catherine Carpentier, daughter of
Antoine, Sieur of Lespagnerie and Catherine de Courteville d’Hodieg. He
was master of the waters and forests at Boulogne, and the father of many
children. From him descended the present Du Campes of Rosamel, allied to
the La Rue, Le Blond de Plouy, Cacheleu d’Houdan, etc., among whom were
_Daniel Antoine_, lieutenant in the Liannois regiment in 1729; _Claude
Louis Marie_, marshal of the camp in 1789; and in the present century a
rear-admiral, minister of war, father of another rear-admiral, a son of
whom is at the present time commander of a vessel.”

There are many references concerning these “Du Campes” in the archives
of the Department Pas du Calais at Arras, from which may be learned the
following facts: _Francois_ and _Jacqueline (Lesseline) Du Campe_ had
issue _Guillaume_, eldest son, an advocate at Sarlement, and later Sieur
of Cambremont; _Philippe_, second son, baptized at parish of St. Joseph
on 9 November, 1646, his godfather being Philippe de Crequy,
Chevalier-Seigneur de Hesmont, Souverains Moulins, Wimille, and other
estates; _Francoise_, a daughter, who signed a marriage contract with
Regnaut Destailleur, Knight, Sieur de Questreque, on 10 September, 1659,
and had a child, Marie Francoise Destailleur, married to Bertrand de La
Haye, Seigneur de la Houssaye, on 27 January, 1684, by Louis, priest of
the Oratory; _Louis_, who was priest of the Oratory at Boulogne, and
died 8 November, 1700.

PHILIPPE AND ADRIENNE (LEPIGAULT) DU CAMPE had a son _Louis_ and a
daughter _Nicolle_, who married Jean de Lafontaine, Sieur Dufart.

LOUIS AND ANTOINETTE (CARPENTIER) DU CAMPE had a son _Louis Antoine_
baptized 15 April, 1697, and a son _Francois_, baptized 10 October,
1712.

DANIEL ANTOINE DU CAMPE, squire and Seigneur de Rosamel, was married on
7 January, 1727, to Marie Marguerite de la Rue du Rosny, by Louis Claude
Du Campe, priest of the parish of St. Joseph, and had a son _Daniel_,
baptized on 20 September, 1729–30.

CLAUDE LOUIS MARIE DU CAMPE, Chevalier, Seigneur de Rosamel, Chevalier
of St. Louis, Major of the Royal Navarre Regiment, married Marie Armande
Cecile de St. Martin, who died 17 February, 1765, aged 19 years. He was
also Seigneur of Frency, Seguian, Journy, Lamotte, Courteville, and
Zelucy.

CLAUDE CHARLES MARIE DU CAMP DE ROSAMEL was born at Boulogne 1774 (?),
was minister of marine, and died 19 March, 1873.

In addition to above “Du Campes” clearly related to the great Du Campe
family of Boulogne, we also find the following mentioned in the Arras
archives:

JEAN DESCAMPS (sic) living at Boulogne, a son of Jean Descamps,
deceased, and Margueritte Chevalier, married on 28 September, 1681,
Catherine Delarre. Witness, Maurice Descamps, his younger brother.

GUILLAUME DU CAMPE and Marie Boutalle had a son Jean, who obtained a
beneficiary letter on 12 October, 1705.

NICHOLAS DU CAMP and Marie Isabelle Battel, his wife, living at
Cremaren, had a lawsuit at Samer with Jean Battel and Marie Duflos, his
wife, on 30 October, 1733.

MARIE ANNE BARBE AUSTREBERTHE COULOMBER DU CAMP, daughter of Jacques and
Angelique Rose Du Camp, living at Boulogne, married on 24 July, 1736,
Antoine, Seigneur du Blaujel. Witness, Jean Du Camp, proprietor, living
at Lianne.

MARIE ROSE DESCAMPS, widow of Charles Jacques, living at the hamlet of
Partel, gave a donation to Marie Rose Jacques, her daughter, of
furniture situated at Bienvillon-au-Bois on 11 October, 1741.

LOUISE MARIE DU CAMP, living at Brumembert, signed a contract of
marriage with Adrien Gardin, laborer, living at same place, on 11
January, 1755.

In “Le Cabinet Historique” (Indicateur Armorial d’Houzier, Charles
Rene), edition 1866, may be found the names of those “De Camps” entitled
to bear coat-armor about 1650. The list is as follows:

JEAN ANDRÉ DE CAMPS, Counsellor to the Presidial of Pamiers. Arms: On a
shield azure a chevron with two roses in chief and a wheat sheaf in
point, all in gold. (Montpellier, vol. 15, fol. 1483.)

JACQUES DE or DU CAMP, notary in the district of Lauvan. Arms: On a
shield sinople (the color green in English heraldry) a chief fessy, gold
and sable. (Montpellier, vol. 15, fol. 1483.)

FRANCOIS DE CAMPS, Abbe de Ligny. Arms: On a shield azure, a lion gold
holding in his two front paws a shield, sable. (Paris, vol. 24, pt. ii.,
fol. 1137.)

LAURENT DE CAMPS, Chief Surgeon of the King’s Hospitals at Maubeuge.
Arms: On a shield azure three trefoils, gold, 2 and 1. (Flanders, vol.
12, fol. 1438.)

ETIENNE DES CAMPS, scribe of the king at the gallery called La Forte.
Arms: On a shield azure a crescent gold between two towers silver,
placed front, three stars gold ranged in chief, and three ducks, also
gold, ranged in point, swimming on a river of silver. (Provence, vol.
29, pt. i., fol. 668.)

JACQUES DE CAMPS, bourgeois. Arms: On a shield azure two towers silver,
jointed sable, accompanied in point by a dog, gold, running after a
hare, gold, on a meadow, silver, and a chief gules charged with three
gold stars. (Provence, vol. 29, pt. i., fol. 818.)

BERTRAND DE CAMPS, Procureur Audit of Parleement; Capitoul (municipal
officer of Toulouse). Arms: On a shield azure a chevron gules,
accompanied in chief by dots azure, and in point by a lion of sable,
tongued and armed gules and a chief, azure, charged with three silver
stars. (Toulouse, vol. 14, pt. i., fol. 137.)

PIERRE DE CAMPS, esquire, Seigneur de Clairbourg, and former body guard
to the king, Valet of the Wardrobe to Monsieur (the Dauphin). Arms: On a
shield azure a chevron gules, accompanied by three merlets of sable.


From the above facts it will be noted that there existed a large family
of Protestant “De Camps” at Montauban between 1625–1675; a great
Catholic family of “Du Campe” at Boulogne between 1600–1780, and an
indication of “De Camps” at Rouen. Perhaps a clue to the ancestry of the
New Jersey “De Camp” family may lurk about that Laurent De Camps who was
Chief Surgeon at Mauberge and that Laurent De Camps who was Sieur de
Bernoville in 1746. The fact of a Maurice Descamps being a witness to
the marriage of his brother Jean Descamps and Catherine Delarre on 28
September, 1681, may also be important, as this Maurice was a son of
Jean and Margueritte (Chevalier) Descamps, deceased in 1681, and it will
hereafter be seen that the name of Morris is a favored one in the early
New Jersey De Camp families.

The purpose of the present work is to trace and record the descendants
of “Laurens Jansen De Camp,”[3] a French Huguenot, who arrived in this
country about 1664, and appears to have been the first and only one of
his name who came to the shores of the New Netherlands.

1 LAURENCE^2 DE CAMP, the son of _John^1 De Camp_, was probably born
either in the province of Picardie or Normandy about 1645. He arrived at
New Amsterdam in 1664, in company with other Huguenots, from Holland;
but the name of the vessel in which he crossed the ocean is unknown. Dr.
Charles W. Baird, in his “History of the Huguenot Refugees in America,”
states that his fellow-emigrants were Antoine du Chaine, Nicolas de La
Plaine, Jean de la Warde, all of Normandy; and Simon Bouclé, Jacques
Monier, Pierre Monier, Gedeon Merlet, Jacques Cossart, and Jean Paul de
Rues. In the early Dutch church records he is repeatedly called “Laurens
Jansen,”[4] but in 1687 his full name, “Laurens Jansen De Camp,” appears
on the Kings County, N. Y., rolls.

He must have been quite young at the date of his emigration for he
married about 1676 Elsie de Mandeville, daughter of Gillis and Altje
(Hendricks) de Mandeville[5] (also written Mandeviel), and had most if
not all his children born within the period of from 1676–1696. In the
Assessment Roll of New Utrecht made up 24th August, 1675, his name
appears as “Laurens Jansen 1 Pole, 2 Horses, 2 Cows, £52; 24 Morgens of
Land £48; Total; £100;” and in the Assessment Roll of the same place
made up 29th September, 1676, he appears as “Laurens Jansen 1 Pole; 2
Horses; 2 Cows; £52; 12 Morgens of Land; £24; Total £76.”

In 1677 the names “Laurens Jansen and wife” appear in a list of church
members at New Utrecht, N. Y., and he undoubtedly lived at this place
from 1664 to 1688, for on the 26th September, 1687, his name appears on
a list of these inhabitants of Kings County, N. Y., who took the oath of
allegiance to England as follows: “Lawrens Janse De Camp 23 Jaere” (Doc.
Hist. of N. Y., vol. I., p. 415), (that is, he had been in New
Netherlands 23 years) of New Utrecht, N. Y. Shortly after this date he
must have removed to Staten Island, N. Y., where there was a large
Huguenot settlement and a French church established as early as 1680. On
30th December, 1701, he joined in a Petition of the Protestants of New
York to King William III. (N. Y. Col. Mss., vol. IV., p. 942), entitled
“A list of the maj^r part of the freeholders and inhabitants of Richmond
County” “Johannes de Campe; Larrens de Campe.” The John De Camp here
mentioned was his eldest son. In 1719, May 7th, he was Local Pastor of
the Staten Island Dutch Church. On 20 June, 1679 “Laurens Janz & Altie
Gillis” his wife, were the witnesses at baptism of Maria, the child of
Antoine Du Chesne and Anna Bocque at Flatbush, N. Y. On 5th May, 1688,
Laurens Jansen and Altie Gillis, his wife, were the witnesses at baptism
of Angenetie, child of Hendrik Jansen Cammega and Anna Maria Vervele at
Flatbush, N. Y.

His children were:

        i JOANNES^3, bapt. 1677, Apl. 2, at Brooklyn, N. Y. by Dom.
            Gideon Schaets. Witnesses: Joannes Gillisz and Tryntje
            Gillis.

  2    ii JOHANIS^3, bapt. 1679, Feb. 2, at Flatbush. Witness: Tryntje
            Gillis.

      iii STYNTJE^3, bapt. 1681, Jan. 16, at Flatbush. Witness: Gillis
            and Elsje Mandeville. She is Christyntje or Christina De
            Camp and married _Christoffel Christopher_, and their names
            appear on Staten Island Dutch Church record as witnesses on
            several entries of birth.

  3    iv HENDRIK^3, bapt. about 1682, probably at Flatbush.

  4     v AGIDIUS^3, bapt. 1683, Apl. 8, at Flatbush. Witnesses: Hend
            Gillis and Aaratie Peters.

       vi WERAICHIE^3, bapt. 1685 at Flatbush. Witnesses: Dan Polhemus
            and Neeltje Cornelissen V. d. Veer. Her name as entered is
            wrong or meant for Marytje. She married _Charles Ellens_ and
            had a son (11) _Johannes_^4, bapt. 1719, May 7, at Staten
            Island. Witnesses: Laurens de Camp, Loco. Past: Nicholas
            Bakkers, Catherine Vlierboom.

      vii ALTJE^3, bapt. about 1690. She married _Cornelis Egmont_, and
            had issue (1) _Altje_^4 bapt. 1718, Apl. 21, at Staten
            Island, by Dom. Freeman. Witnesses: Louwerens Van Campen and
            wife. (2) _Femmetje_^4 bapt. 1721, Apl. 30, at Staten
            Island. Witnesses: Gideon de Camp and Hendrikje Elles. (3)
            _Zeger_^4 bapt. 1723, July 21, at Staten Island. Witnesses:
            Zeger Gerritzen and Jannetje Faas. (4) _Christoffel_^4 bapt.
            1725, Jan. 2, at Staten Island. Witnesses: Laurens de Camp
            and Christyntje de Camp.

2 JOHN^3 DE CAMP (Laurence^2, John^1) was born at New Utrecht, N. Y.,
about January 1679. He was baptized on 2d Feb. 1679, at Flatbush, N. Y.
Witness: Trynte Gillis. He must have removed to Staten Island with his
father, for his name appears on a List of Protestant Freeholders of
Richmond Co., who petitioned King William III., on 30 Dec. 1701, as
“Johannes de Campe.” He married about 1701, _Mary Praal_, daughter of
Peter and Mary Praal, and died about 1765. He left a will dated 9 Feb.
1764, probated in Essex Co., N. J., on 28 May, 1766, Liber H., fol. 610,
in which he mentions a son Aaron; heirs of a son John, deceased; heirs
of a daughter Mary Vannamen, deceased; heirs of a daughter Dinah Power,
deceased; and a daughter Sarah Oughtletree. The executors named were
William Parrat, Jacob Bedell, and Recompense Stanbury. The witnesses
were Jonathan Milford, Abraham Rutan and William Coles.

In 1715 “Johannes Van Campen and Saara Van Namen” were witnesses at
baptism of Tys, child of Johannes Sweem, at Staten Island.

The children of John De Camp were:

        i JOHN^4, who had a son _Laurence_^5.

       ii SARAH^4, who married —— _Oughtletree_.

      iii MARY^4, who married _Engelbert Van Namen_, and had issue (1)
            _Johannes_^5, baptized 12 April, 1719, at Staten Island.
            Witnesses: Stoffel Christopher and Christina de Camp. (2)
            _Sara^5 and Maria_^5, twins, baptized 8 Oct. 1721, at Staten
            Island. Witnesses: John Van Namen, John De Camp, Maria Van
            Pelt, Maria Praal.

       iv MARTHA^4, bapt. 23 Apl. 1707, at Staten Island. Witnesses:
            Thys Sweem and Saraatie Sweem.

        v CHRISTINA^4, bapt. 17 Apl. 1711, at Staten Island. Witnesses:
            Pieter Praal and his wife Mary. She married _David Pauer_ on
            23d Mar. 1728, a record of which is at Hackensack, N. J.,
            but marriage did not take place there.

  5    vi ARENT^4, born 21 May; bapt. 6 June 1715, at Staten Island.
            Witnesses: Johannes Sweem and his wife Martha.

3 HENRY^3 DE CAMP (Laurence^2, John^1) was born at New Utrecht, N. Y.,
about 1682. He married on 17 Apl. 1704, at Dutch Church in New York City
_Maria de Lamars_. The record runs “1704 Mar. 30, Hendrik de Kamp j. m.
van N. Utrecht wonende of Staten Ylandt met Maria de Lamars j. f. van de
Bowery: Getrouvt 1704 Apl. 17.” In the census of New York, 1703, is
found “Old Ward: Walter Lamas 1 Female child. 1 Male over 60 years of
age.” It is evident that Walter Lamas was the grandfather of Henry de
Camp’s wife. Hendrick De Camp (sic) left a will dated 4 June, 1771,
proved 10 Aug. 1771, in Middlesex Co., N. J., in which he calls himself
of Woodbridge, N. J., and mentions a wife Mary; a son Henry; great
grandson Ezekiel, son of grandson Lawrence; daughter Aliche (Altje)
Lovel; to his disrespectful son Lambert 10 shillings; a son John; a
daughter Christian Woodroffe; a grandson, son of his son Benjamin,
deceased; also a granddaughter, child of his son Benjamin, deceased;
grandson Joseph, son of his son Lambert. In case of any controversy of
his will he appoints his friend Joseph Shotwell of Rahway, as mediator.
Names as executors his son John and his friend and neighbor William
Smith. The witnesses were William Marsh, Josiah Stansberry and David De
Camp. His children were as follows:

        i LAURENS^4, bapt. 1705, Feb. 18, at New Amsterdam (died early).

       ii LAURENS^4, bapt. 1709, Apl. 19, at Staten Island. Witness:
            Laurens Van Campen (assessed in Franklin Township, Somerset
            Co., in 1745 for 125 acres).

  6   iii LAMMERT^4, bapt. 1711, Apl. 17, at Staten Island. Witnesses:
            Johannes Van Campen and his wife Mary.

       iv AELTIE^4, bapt. 1715, at Staten Island. Witnesses: Giedie Van
            Campen and Elsie Van Campen.

  7     v HENDRICK^4, bapt. 1715, at Staten Island. Witnesses: Cornelis
            Egmont and Marytje Van Campan.

  8    vi JOHANES^4, bapt. 1717, Apl. 17, by Dom. Antonius, at Staten
            Island. Witnesses: Claas Baeker and Marytie Van Campen.

      vii DAVID^4, bapt. 1719, Aug. 2, at Staten Island. Witnesses:
            Bastiaan Elles and Hendrikje Elles.

     viii GIDEON^4, bapt. 1721, May 21, at Staten Island. Witnesses:
            Jacob Bakker and Catherine Vlierboom.

       ix CHRISTOFFEL^4, bapt. 1725, Feb. 13, at Staten Island.
            Witnesses: Laurens de Camp, Loca Patris; Cornelis Egmont and
            Crystyntje de Camp.

  9     x BENJAMIN^4, bapt. 1728, Jan. 21, at Hackensack. Witnesses:
            David Pauwer and Rachel Banta.

       xi CHRISTINA^4, who married —— _Woodroffe_.

4 GIDEON^3 DE CAMP (Laurent^2, John^1) was born at Flatbush, Long
Island, about March 1683. He was baptized there on 8 April, 1683, and
had as witnesses his uncle and aunt Hendrick (Gillis) Mandeviel and
Aratie (Peters) Mandeviel. He married _Henrietta Ellis_, daughter of
Bastian and Sarah Ellis (?). On 27 July, 1714, as Gidie Van Campen he
and Styntje Christoffel were witnesses at baptism of Geesie, child of
Rut van der Bergh, at Staten Island. In 1715 Giedie Van Campen and Elsie
Van Campen were witnesses at baptism of Aeltie, child of Hendrick Van
Campen, at Staten Island. On 12th Sept. 1717, Gydon Van Campen and wife
were witnesses at baptism at Staten Island, by Dom. Freeman, of Gillis,
child of Cobus Creven. On 30 April, 1721, Gideon de Camp and Hendrikje
Elles were witnesses at baptism of Femmetje, child of Cornelis Egmont
and Elsje de Camp, at Staten Island. On 24th July, 1743, Gedejon Decamp
and Hendrikje Decamp were witnesses at baptism at New Brunswick, N. J.,
of child of Bastejan Ellis and Sarah, his wife. Gideon De Camp must have
removed to New Brunswick, N. J., about 1735, for on 27 Nov. 1735, he
signed the rules of the New Brunswick Dutch Church as “Gyedieion De
Camp” and in the Pew List he appeared as the owner of Pew Seats Nos. 16,
17, and 18.

One Bastian Ellis of Staten Island, Richmond Co., N. Y., left a will
dated 25 Mar. 1760, proved 2 Dec. 1763, recorded Liber 24 of Wills, page
227, in N. Y. Co., in which is mentioned wife “Sary” and children
Cornelis, Bastian, Catran, Sarah, Eagye, Areeanche, Hendrickai and Mary.
Whether he was the father or brother-in-law of Gideon De Camp is as yet
undetermined.

His children were as follows:

 10     i GERRIT^4, bapt. 1717, Apl. 17, by Dom. Antonius, at Staten
            Island. Witnesses: Bastjan Eleyen and Gersteyntjes
            Christofeer.

 11    ii LAURENS^4, bapt. 1719, June 7, at Staten Island, Witnesses:
            Laurens de Camp and Aeltje Mandeviel.

      iii BASTIAAN^4, bapt. 1724, Aug. 30, at Staten Island. Witnesses:
            Zeger Gerritsen and Jannetje Faas.

 12    iv GIDEON^4, bapt. 1727, Oct. 15, at Staten Island. Witnesses:
            Cornelis Egmont and Elsje De Camp.

        v ALTJE^4, bapt. 1735, Aug. 10, at New Brunswick, N. J.

5 AARON^4 DE CAMP (John^3, Laurence^2, John^1) died about 1788, leaving
following issue:

 13     i AARON^5.

       ii MOSES^5.

      iii JOHN^5.

       iv JOB^5.

        v LEVI^5.

       vi LOT^5.

      vii MARY^5.

     viii SARAH^5.

       ix AMY^5.

        x DOCIA^5.

       xi JEMIMA^5, who married —— _Squire_ and had issue. (1)
            _Aaron_^6, (2) _Stephen_^6, (3) _Moses_^6, (4) _Ludlow_^6,
            (5) _Sarah_^6.

The names of his children are learned from a Petition of Aaron De Camp,
dated 23 Jan. 1790 (No. 427 Newark Probate Office), to partition the
lands of his father Aaron De Camp, who died 1788.

6 LAMBERT^4 DE CAMP (Henry^3, Laurence^2, John^1) was baptized at Staten
Island on 17 Apl. 1711. Witnesses: Johannes Van Campen and wife Mary
(his uncle and aunt). He married _Mary_ ——, and must have died about
1790. His will is dated 4 Oct. 1784, and was proved 4 Oct. 1790. In it
he speaks of himself as of Elizabeth Boro, Essex Co., N. J., a son of
Hendrick De Camp. He gives to his son Henry certain lands in Somerset
Co., N. J.; to son Lambert lands in Essex Co., N. J. Mentions sons
James, David, Moses, daughters Elizabeth and Leah, and his wife Mary. He
also mentions a brother Henry. Names as executors his sons Joseph and
David. Witnesses: John Allen, Enoch De Camp and Dan Marsh.

His children were as follows:

 14     i HENRY^5.
 15    ii LAMBERT^5.
 16   iii JAMES^5.
 17    iv DAVID^5.
        v JOSEPH^5.
 18    vi MOSES^5, born 1735, Sept. 25, at Westfield, N. J.
      vii ELIZABETH^5.
     viii LEAH^5.

7 HENRY^4 DE CAMP (Henry^3, Laurence^2, John^1) was baptized 1715, at
Staten Island. Witnesses, Cornelis Egmont and Marytie Van Campen. He
married and lived at Woodbridge, N. J., and died about 1785. In his
will, dated 1776, October 31, proved 1785, May 30, he calls himself
“Quaker,” of Woodbridge, Middlesex Co., N. J., and mentions sons Enoch,
Job; daughters Phebe, wife of Akron; Elizabeth, wife of Thomas Scudder;
Mercy, wife of William Hetfield; Sarah, wife of William Gillman;
grandson, Kimble, son of his son Zachariah. Names as executors Joseph De
Camp and William Smith. Witnesses, Uzziah Codington, Enoch Moore, and
Moses Jacques. His children were as follows:

 19     i ENOCH^5, had a son _Zachariah_^6.

       ii JOB^5.

      iii PHEBE^5, who married —— _Akron_.

       iv ELIZABETH^5, who married _Thomas Scudder_.

        v MERCY^5, who married _William Hetfield_.

       vi SARAH^5, who married _William Gillman_, and mentions in will
            “my kinsman” Joseph De Camp, of Rahway, N. J.

 20   vii ZACHARIAH^5, who married and had a son _Kimble_^6.

8 JOHN^4 DE CAMP (Henry^3, Laurence^3, John^1), born 1715, was baptized
at Staten Island 1717, April 17, by Dom. Antonius. Sponsors: Claas
Baeker and Marytie Van Campen. He must have married and removed to
Woodbridge or Elizabeth, N. J., about 1735, for he owned a plantation at
Elizabeth. This is mentioned in a deed of Isaac Ward, sheriff, to Moses
Jacques, dated 11 January, 1804, recorded in Newark Register’s Office in
Book H. of Deeds, page 522, as follows: “Which said tract of land and
premises are that part of the homestead and plantation formerly of John
De Camp, deceased, and afterwards divided off to Morris De Camp, and by
him conveyed to his son Gideon De Camp.”

John^4 De Camp was buried on the road between Westfield and Rahway, in a
wood, near the grave of his brother Benjamin^4 De Camp. His tombstone
reads: “Died Oct. 23, 1782, age 67.”

He doubtless had several children, the only known child being

 21     i MORRIS^5.
       ii ABRAHAM^5 (doubtful).

9 BENJAMIN^4 DE CAMP (Henry^3, Laurence^2, John^1) was baptized on 21
January, 1728, at Hackensack, N. J. Witnesses, David Pauwer and Rachel
Banta. He married _Elizabeth_ ——. He lived and died at Woodbridge, N.
J., and administration was granted on his estate to his widow
_Elizabeth_ on 17 April, 1759. He is buried on the road between
Westfield and Rahway, in a wood. A gravestone says: “Born 1725; died
April 7, 1759, age 34.” His children were:

 22     i JOHN^5.
       ii LAURENCE^5, had a son _Ezekiel_^6.
      iii A DAUGHTER^5.
       iv A DAUGHTER^5.

10 GERRIT^4 DE CAMP (Gideon^3, Laurence^2, John^1) was baptized at
Staten Island on 17 April, 1717, by Dom. Antonius. Witnesses: Bastijan
Eleyen and Gersteyntjes Christofeer. He married Susannah ——. Letters of
administration were granted to his widow Susannah in Somerset Co., N.
J., on 8 November, 1763. His children were:

        i GERRIT^5, bapt. 1752, Jan. 19, at New Brunswick, N. J.
       ii AELTJE^5, bapt. 1753, April 15, at New Brunswick, N. J.

11 LAURENCE^4 DE CAMP (_Gideon_^3, _Laurence_^2, _John_^1)[6] was a
resident of New Brunswick, N. J., about 1750, and married _Janette_ ——,
by whom he had issue:

        i HENDRICKS^5, bapt. 1754, Oct. 13, at New Brunswick, N. J.

       ii CATRINA^5, bapt. 1756, May 16, at New Brunswick, N. J. Died
            young.

      iii CATRINA^5, bapt. 1758, Sept. 3, at New Brunswick, N. J.

       iv LAURENCE^5, bapt. 1760, Aug. 10, at New Brunswick, N. J.

        v JANNETIE^5, bapt. 1762, Sept. 19, at New Brunswick, N. J.

       vi PETER^5, bapt. 1768, March 13, at New Brunswick, N. J.

12 GIDEON^4 DE CAMP (Gideon^3, Laurence^2, John^1) was baptized 1727,
October 15, at Staten Island. Witnesses: Cornelis Egmont and Elsje De
Camp. He lived and probably married at New Brunswick, N. J. His wife’s
name was _Christina_ ——. His children were:

        i Maria^5, bapt. 1751, July 21, at New Brunswick, N. J. She died
            young.

       ii Catrina^5, bapt. 1753, March 18, at New Brunswick, N. J.

      iii MARIA^5, born 1754, Jan. 18; bapt. 1755, Feb. 16, at New
            Brunswick, N. J.; died 1836, Nov. 27. She married, 1780,
            April 23, _John Martin Van Voorhees_, born 1751, July 19;
            died 1814, Nov. 14, and had issue (1) _Martin_^6, bapt.
            1781, April 22; died 1797, Aug. 25, unmarried: (2)
            _Gideon_^6, b. 1784, Nov. 23; died 1805; (3) _Eve_^6, b.
            1785–6, July 7; (4) _John Martin_^6, bapt. 1788, May 25;
            died 1810, Sept. 3; (5) _Ellen_^6, b. 1791; died 1867, Jan.
            1, unmarried; (6) _Maria_^6, bapt. 1794, April 6; died 1880,
            March 16, unmarried.

       iv EVA^5, bapt. 1756, Oct. 17, at New Brunswick, N. J. Witness,
            Altje De Campe.

 23     v JOHANNES^5, bapt. 1759, April 19, at New Brunswick.

       vi GIDEON^5, bapt. 1762, Sept. 19, at New Brunswick.

 24   vii HENDRICK^5, bapt. 1764, Sept. 9, at New Brunswick.

     viii LENA^5 (Helen), b. 1769; bapt. 1769, Dec. 17, at New
            Brunswick; died 1824, June 20, at Newburg, N. Y. age 55
            years. She married Robert McKune, of Newburg, N. Y.; b.
            1761, June 12; died 1843, July 2, age 82 years, 20 days, and
            had issue (1) _Hezekiah_^6, b. 1790, Oct. 17; died 1826,
            April 28, age 35 years, 6 months, 11 days; (2) _Helen_;^6
            (3) _Emma_;^6 (4) _Henry_;^6 (5) _Joseph_;^6 (6) _Robert
            H._^6, b. 1823, Aug. 19; (7) _Emmeline_;^6 (8) _Mary_.^6 She
            and her husband’s gravestones are in Newburg Cemetery, N. Y.

13 AARON^5 DE CAMP (Aaron^4, John^3, Laurence^2, John^1) was of
Caldwell, Essex Co., N. J. He married _Ketura Clark_ of New Providence,
N. J. On 23 January, 1790, he petitioned at Newark, N. J. (File No. 427,
Probate Office Records) to have division of lands left by his father,
Aaron De Camp. Mentions his father’s death in 1788, leaving ten
children, viz., Aaron (the petitioner), Moses, John, Job, Levi, Lot,
Mary, Sarah, Amy, Docia and Aaron Stephen, Moses, and Ludlow Squier and
Sarah, wife of Jacob Tingley, all children of Jemima, daughter of Aaron
De Camp (who died 1788), who died before her father.

Aaron^5 De Camp died about 1827, leaving a will not dated but proved 29
March, 1827 (Liber D. of Wills, p. 465), Newark, N. J., Probate Office.
In it he mentions his wife Ketura, sons Moses, Benjamin, Daniel;
grandsons John and Daniel, sons of his son Moses; daughters Sarah Riker,
Abigail Beach, Mary Shippen, and Deborah De Camp. He names as executors
Zemas Harrison and William Gould. Witnesses, Josiah Steele, Abram
Personett and Nathaniel M. Gould. The children[7] of Aaron^5 and Ketura
De Camp were:

        i JOHN^6, died unmarried.

       ii DANIEL^6, died unmarried.

 25   iii MOSES^6.

 26    iv BENJAMIN^6.

        v SARAH^6, who married —— _Riker_ and had issue.

       vi ABIGAIL^6, who married —— _Beach_, and had three children.

      vii MARY^6, who married —— _Shippen_.

     viii DEBORAH^6, who married _Warren Newcomb_ (see Deeds, Book A3,
            p. 87, dated 5 June, 1828), Newark, N. J.

14 HENRY^5 DE CAMP (Lambert^4, Henry^3, Laurence^2, John^1) was probably
born at Woodbridge, N. J., and removed to Sucsunna Plains, N. J., where
he died. He married (name of wife unknown) and had issue:

 27     i JOSEPH^6, b. 1759.
 28    ii JOHN^6, b. 1760.
      iii SILAS^6, married and had issue: 1. _Israel_^7.
 29    iv DAVID^6.
 30     v MOSES^6.
 31    vi LEMUEL^6.
 32   vii MORRIS^6.

15 LAMBERT^5 DE CAMP (Lambert^4, Henry^3, Laurence^2, John^1), was born
in 1733, probably at Woodbridge, N. J. He married (1st) _Charity_ ——, b.
1729; d. 1792, April 10, aged 63 years, and (2d) _Phebe_ ——. He died on
14 April, 1814, aged 81 years, leaving a will dated 1812, Oct. 24,
proved 1814, April 14, at New Brunswick Probate Office. In his will he
speaks of himself as of Woodbridge, Middlesex Co., N. J.; mentions son
William and his children; son Benjamin and his children; his wife Phebe,
and his four daughters, Sarah, Isabel, Mary and Margaret. He names as
executors Isaac Laing and his son William De Camp. Witnesses were Robert
Shotwell, Nancy Kelly and Lewis Kelly.

His widow, Phebe De Camp, of Rahway, N. J., died about 1825, leaving a
will dated 1818, Nov. 26, proved 1825, Oct. 21, in Liber D. of Wills, p.
272, Newark Probate Office. In it she mentions one Sarah Arnold and
Phebe Pricket, granddaughter of Edward Marsh and Mary, sister of Phebe’s
mother; also Lucy, John Randolph’s wife, and two nieces, Mary and Phebe,
daughters of Noah Marsh. The executrices were Mary and Phebe Marsh, and
the witnesses were Elizabeth Worth and David S. Craig. It is probable
that Lambert De Camp had issue by his first wife _Charity_ —— only, said
issue being

 33     i WILLIAM^6.
 34    ii BENJAMIN^6.
      iii SARAH^6.
       iv ISABEL^6.
        v MARY^6.
       vi MARGARET^6.

16 JAMES^5 DE CAMP (Lambert^4, Henry^3, Laurence^2, John^1).
Administration on his estate was granted on 30 Nov., 1814, Liber A, page
79, in Newark Probate Office, to _Elizabeth M. De Camp_ (presumed to be
his wife) and Stephen De Camp.

Later a petition was filed (No. 1564), dated 17 April, 1815, for
division of his real estate, which states he left him surviving the
following children:

 35     i ELIPHALET^6.[8]
       ii JAMES^6 (the petitioner).
 36   iii STEPHEN^6.
       iv CLARK^6.
        v FREELOVE^6, wife of _Robert Bloomfield_.
       vi SALLY^6, wife of _Johnson Ayres_.

17 DAVID^5 DE CAMP (Lambert^4, Henry^3, Laurence^2, John^1), of Rahway,
N. J., married _Prudence_ ——; died in 1816, leaving a will dated 1813,
March 29; proved 1816, July 2, in Liber B of Wills, p. 200, Newark
Probate Office, in which he mentions his wife, Prudence; son, David De
Camp, and grandson Elias, son of said David; and three daughters, viz.,
Mary, Sarah and Lucy. The executors were Thomas Martin and Peter
Vandewater. The witnesses were Lewis Kelly, Benjamin De Camp and Morris
Webster. His issue were:

 37     i DAVID^6.
       ii MARY^6.
      iii SARAH^6, married —— _Arnold_.
       iv LUCY^6, married _John Randolph_.

18 MOSES^5 DE CAMP (Lambert^4, Henry^3, Laurence^2, John^1) was born at
Westfield, N. J., 28 September, 1735, and married _Sarah Ross_. He
removed to Butler County, Ohio, in September, 1812, and purchased land
there, dividing between his sons David and Ezekiel, who accompanied him,
160 acres in Reily Township, Section 14, Range 1, East, about four miles
south of Oxford, Ohio. He died here 5 October, 1827, aged 92 years, and
his wife died 15 May, 1835, aged 89 years. Their graves are in cemetery
of old Bethel Presbyterian Church, seven miles west of Hamilton, Ohio.
Moses De Camp served through the Revolutionary War, and his flintlock
musket is in hands of Mrs. Rebecca Hand Mustin, a great-granddaughter,
at Wood’s Station, Ohio.

The children of Moses De Camp and Sarah Ross were as follows:

        i WALTER^6, who died at Westfield, N. J., 24 May, 1802, aged 37
            years.

       ii HANNAH^6, who married _Ellis Hand_ and had no children.

      iii DAVID^6, who was born 1772, married _Sarah Wood_, removed to
            Butler Co., Ohio, in 1812, and died there 22 August, 1860,
            aged 88 years and 29 days. His wife died 6 September, 1864,
            aged 87 years.

       iv NANCY^6, who married _Squire Pierson_ and had nine children.

 38     v EZEKIEL^6.

       vi SARAH^6, who married _Aaron Sayres_ and had three children.

      vii BETSY^6, who married _Jacob Denman_ and had six children.

     viii REBEKAH^6, who died at Westfield, N. J., 23 March, 1789, aged
            4 years.

19[9]ENOCH^5 DE CAMP (Henry^4, Henry^3, Laurence^2, John^1) must have
married twice and had

                             BY FIRST WIFE.
 39     i ZACHARIAH^6.


                             BY SECOND WIFE.
       ii JOHN^6, of Jefferson Township, who built a forge at Upper
            Longwood in 1800.

20 ZACHARIAH^5 DE CAMP (Henry^4, Henry^3, Laurence^2, John^1) married
and had issue.

        i KIMBLE^6.

21 MORRIS^5 DE CAMP (_John_^4, _Henry_^3, _Laurence_^2, _John_^1).
Little is known of him, except the fact that he owned land in Essex
County, N. J. He may be identical with that Morris De Camp who was a
sergeant in Col. Elisha Sheldon’s 2d Regiment of Dragoons, Capt.
Barnet’s Company, and was wounded in the foot at Staten Island fight on
23 August, 1777, during the Revolutionary War. He is mentioned in the
muster rolls as Morris Decamp, Serg’t, 25 Jan., 1777, Westfield, N. J.;
farmer; discharged. (Hist. of Woodbridge, N. J.) He must have married
and lived at Westfield, N. J., his only known issue being

 40     i GIDEON^6.

22 JOHN^5 DE CAMP (_Benjamin_^4, _Henry_^3, _Laurence_^2, _John_^1) was
born about 1750, and lived in Somerset Co., N. J. He died in 1828,
leaving a will dated 23 May, 1828, recorded in Somerset County Probate
Office on 20 June, 1828, in Book C of Wills, page 349. In it he appoints
Joshua Hardenburgh trustee to take and hold all his estate, real and
personal, including lands in Ohio and Illinois, and pay income from same
to his son Benjamin for life, and at his death to divide estate share
and share alike between his son Benjamin’s children. Names Joshua
Hardenburgh as sole executor and trustee. Witnesses, Aaron J. Austin,
Peter Daley, Catharine Daley. He left issue him surviving.

 41     i BENJAMIN^6.

23 JOHN^5 DE CAMP (Gideon^4, Gideon^3, Laurence^2 John^1) was born at
New Brunswick, N. J., and baptized there 1759, April 19. He died
intestate at Troy, N. Y. 1809, and letters of administration were issued
1809, March 18 (L. 3, p. 166) to Eve De Camp and Edward Ostrander. He
married _Eve_ ——. At Troy, N. Y., the following deeds are recorded:
Jacob Van der Heyden to John De Camp, carpenter, of Troy, N. Y., dated
1790, Oct. 25, rec’d L. 77, p. 369; Peter Wither, of Troy, N. Y., to
John de Camp, of Troy, N. Y., dated 1802, Nov. 25, rec’d L. 3, p. 187;
Jacob van der Heyden to John De Camp, carpenter, of Troy, N. Y., dated
1790, Oct. 25, rec’d L. 3, p. 189. Release of Dower, John De Camp and
wife Eve, dated 1805, Jan. 25, rec’d L. 77, p. 371.

His wife Eve married, for her second husband, John Haskins, at Troy,
1814, Jan. 14, by Rev. Jonas Coe.[10]

His children were as follows:

        i JOHN^6, born 1800, Oct. 11.

       ii MARTIN^6, born 1803, July 17.

      iii CHRISTINA^6, born 1805, Oct. 26; married _Henry Rousseau_ at
            Troy on 10 May, 1826, and had issue; _George H. Rousseau_^7,
            who died in N. Y. about 1893.

       iv CLARISSA^6, born 1807, Oct. 19.

        v MARY^6 (Polly).

       vi A DAUGHTER^6, who married —— _Buel_.

24 HENRY^5 DE CAMP (Gideon^4, Gideon^3, Laurence^2, John^1) was born at
New Brunswick, N. J., and baptized there 1764, Sept. 9. He died 1853,
July 26, at Greenport, L. I., N. Y. State, and is buried in the Stirling
Cemetery there. He married _Elizabeth Frear_, also written “Fryer” and
“Frair,” daughter of John and ——. She was born about 1768 and died at
Troy, N. Y., 1830, aged 62 years. Her family is said to have owned land
above Troy near the Mohawk river, and a home on the Hoosack road. On 26
Nov. 1792, the contract for building the First Presbyterian Church at
Troy, Dr. Jonas Coe, rector, was let to Abel House, Robert Powers, Henry
and John De Camp, and Benjamin Smith for £46 13s. York money in cash. On
the subscription lists for the court house and gaol appear “John De Camp
£6; Henry D’Camp (sic.) £6.” At Troy Register’s Office appears the
following deed, Jacob Van der Heyden to Henry De Camp, carpenter of
Troy, N. Y., dated 1790 Oct. 25, rec’d L. 4, p. 183. Deed, Henry de Camp
and Elizabeth, his wife of Troy, N. Y., to Andrew Proudfit of Argyle,
Washington Co., dated 1806, Mar. 6, L. 4, p. 185. Signed “Henry D. Camp,
Elizabeth [^{her}/X/_{mark}] De Camp.” Witnessed by Robert McCullen,
Ruggles Hubbard. Deed, Henry De Camp of Troy to John Bordman, dated 1808
Feb. 19, rec’d L. 4, p. 498. Signed Henry D’Camp. Witness, Robert
McCullen. Henry De Camp was a contractor early in life and later ran a
line of sloops between Troy and New York. He failed in business,
however, and retired to Greenport, Long Island, where he died. In the
Evening Mirror, 1 Aug. 1853, N. Y., is the following: “Henry De Camp, a
soldier of the Revolution, died at Greenport, L. I., on the 26th inst.
(July) aged[11] 96 years.” There is a tradition that in 1775 at the
outbreak of the Revolutionary War he was 14 years of age, and
immediately enlisted and served all through the war. This would
apparently place his birth at 1761. In the N. Y. Herald of Monday, 1st
August, 1853, the following obituary notice appears:

“Henry De Camp, a soldier of the Revolution, died at Greenport, L. I.,
on the 26th ult., aged 96 years. Mr. De Camp was born in New Brunswick,
N. J. When he was yet a mere youth the Revolution commenced and he
joined a company raised at New Brunswick. At the close of the war he
learned the trade of a carpenter, and commenced business at Troy, N. Y.,
at which place he settled when there were only six or seven houses
there. He built the first Presbyterian Meeting House erected there. He
would have been astonished could he have visited Troy to have seen to
what it had grown. For the last twenty-five years he has resided at
Greenport, L. I. Out of a large family only four children survive him,
and fourteen grand, twenty-three great grandchildren, and one great
great grandchild.” Henry De Camp’s wife was a sister of Mary Frear, who
married Dr. Alexander Rousseau[12] of Troy, N. Y.

The children of Henry and Elizabeth (Fryer) De Camp were:

    [13]i EVE^6, born about 1788–89, place unknown; died about 1832 in
            Troy or Schenectady. She was married (1st) 1805, Dec. 8, by
            Rev. Jonas Coe at Troy, N. Y., to _Robert McCullen_, son of
            ——, and had issue, all born at Troy, N. Y., and baptized by
            Rev. Jonas Coe, D. D. (1) _Mary Ann_^7, b. 1806 Oct. 21; (2)
            _Almira_^7, b. 1808, Sept. 6; (3) _Elizabeth De Camp_^7, b.
            1810, Oct. 6; (4) _Juliet_^7, b. 1812, Sept. 25; (5)
            _Catherine_^7, b. 1815, Jan. 5; (6) _Sarah Coe_^7, b. 1816,
            Feb. 2. She married (2d) —— Ripley, an inventor of Troy, N.
            Y., and had issue.

       ii JOHN^6, b. 1791 July 25, bapt. 1792, Feb. 26, at Schagticoke,
            N. Y., died 1791.

 42   iii ABRAM^6.

       iv CATHERINE^6, b. 1795, Feb. 20; d. 1868 June 1, in New York, N.
            Y.; married 1821 June 18, _Horace Cogswell_, son of Smith
            and Phebe (Wells) Cogswell, b. 1798, Oct. 9; d. 1849, Oct.
            4, and had issue (1) _Phoebe Elizabeth_^7, 1822, Oct. 9; (2)
            _Caroline Louise_^7, b. 1825, Nov. 22; (3) _Eliza
            Antoinette_^7, b. 1827 Oct. 5.

 43     v HENRY^6, b. 1804, Oct.

       vi ELIZA^6, b. 1805, Jan.; d. 1888, July 9; married 1832, June 6,
            _George Cripps_, son of Joseph and Susanna (Rogers) Cripps,
            b. 1796, May 19, in England; d. 1876, Nov. 6, and had issue
            (1) _Susan_^7, b. 1833, July 25; (2) _Mary Catherine_^7, b.
            1835, Feb. 26; (3) _Emily L._^7, b. 1836, Dec.

 44   vii SIDNEY^6, b. 1806, May 16.

25 MOSES^6 DE CAMP (_Aaron_^5, _Aaron_^4, _John_^3, _Laurence_^2,
_John_^1) was of Caldwell, N. J., and married _Katherine Williams_, a
sister of his brother Benjamin^6 De Camp’s wife, and had six children:

 45     i JOHN^7.
       ii DANIEL^7.
      iii ABIGAIL^7, who married —— _Howells_.

26 BENJAMIN^6 DE CAMP (Aaron^5, Aaron^4, John^3, Laurence^2, John^1) of
Caldwell, Essex Co., N. J., married _Dorcas Williams_, died in 1838,
leaving a will dated 1837, June 10; proved 1838, Aug. 7 (Liber G. of
Wills, p. 95, Newark, N. J. Probate Office). In it he mentions his wife
Dorcas; four sons, Aaron, Timothy, Jonathan, and Zenas Harrison; three
daughters, Phebe, Mary, and Ketury (sic.) Names as executor his son
Aaron. Witnesses: Zenas Harrison, Grimes Bolton, William Moore. The
children of Benjamin and Dorcas De Camp were as follows:

 46    ii TIMOTHY^7.
      iii JONATHAN^7.
       iv ZENAS HARRISON^7.
        v PHEBE^7.
       vi MARY^7.
      vii KETURA^7.

27 JOSEPH^6 DE CAMP (_Henry_^5, _Lambert_^4, _Henry_^3, _Laurence_^2,
_John_^1) was born 1759, and died 1800. He lived at Mt. Pleasant, N. J.,
and married _Jane Tuttle_, daughter of Moses and Jane (Ford) Tuttle, of
Morristown, N. J., born 1769; died 1831, and had issue:

       ii MARY MORRIS^7, b. 1789, who married _John R. Hinchman_ of
            Dover, N. J., later of New York; son of James and Diademia
            (Redding) Hinchman of Newton, N. J., and had issue (1)
            _Lesbia_; (2) _Theodore_; (3) _John_; (4) _Nancy_; (5)
            _Mary_; (6) _Anna_; (7) _James_; (8) _Frank_; (9)
            _Cornelia_.

      iii CORNELIA^7, b. 1791, who married _Chillion Beach_, and had
            issue (1) _Columbus_; (2) _Mary_; (3) _Chillion_.

 47    iv CHILLION FORD^7, b. 1793.

        v JAMES^7, b. 1795.

       vi SUSAN GRANDON^7, b. 1798, married _Guy M. Hinchman_ of Dover,
            N. J., son of Joseph and Zerviah (Seeley) Hinchman of
            Milford, and 1st cousin of John R. Hinchman, above, and had
            issue (1) _Zerviah_; (2) _Jane_; (3) _Louisa_; (4)
            _Augustus_; (5) _Stella_; (6) _Sophronia_.

      vii JANE^7, b. 1799.

28 JOHN^6 DE CAMP (Henry^5, Lambert^4, Henry^3, Laurence^2, John^1)
called “Squire John,” was born 1760, and died in New York city 24th
October, 1844, aged 84 years. He married _Deborah Morris_, daughter of
John Morris. His will is dated 7th Feb. 1842, and was proved 26th
December, 1844, in Liber 90, page 394, of N. Y. County Surrogate’s
Office. In it is mentioned a daughter Sarah, wife of Isaac Bluxome; a
deceased daughter Susan, formerly the wife of William M. O’Hara;
grandsons William James O’Hara and John de Camp Bluxome; son Samuel G.
J. De Camp. The Letters Testamentary show his wife’s name as Elizabeth,
and mentions heirs Samuel G. J. De Camp as residing at Fort Leavenworth,
Mo.; Sarah, daughter, wife of Isaac Bluxome, and Wm. J. O’Hara of
Austin, Tex.; Helen O’Hara Harrall, wife of Abram D. Harrall of
Lexington, Va.; Charles O’Hara, residence unknown, all children of
deceased daughter Susan O’Hara. The N. Y. Evening Post, 26th Oct. 1844,
contains notice of his death and the Morning Courier and N. Y. Enquirer,
26th Oct. 1844, contains following obituary notice.

“On Thursday, 24th inst. John De Camp, aged 84 years. This upright and
energetic man was a soldier of the Revolution. At the early age of 16 he
commenced an active career of military enterprise and was soon engaged
in the perils and glories of the scenes immediately following the
retreat of General Washington across New Jersey. He was present in
numerous engagements with the enemy. His personal conduct secured for
him the approbation of many well known officers, under whom he served.
For two years he was constantly exposed to the dangers and privations of
active service. He then joined a body of men known as express riders
attached to the Quartermaster-General’s Department. In this capacity he
soon became personally known to Gen. Washington, who on many occasions
thereafter during a period of three years, entrusted him with despatches
for Congress and for his general officers. In all his military duties he
invariably acquired the confidence of his general commander, and the
fact of his being constantly employed in the immediate service of Gen.
Washington is a sufficient guarantee of his character. With his life as
a private citizen we have less to do. It is enough to say that he was
eminently successful. He was remarkable for industry, activity and
probity. For 27 years he occupied a seat on the judicial bench of his
native state, New Jersey. At a later period he came to reside in this
city, and in the numerous circles of acquaintances he commanded the
respect and esteem of all who knew him to value the great Christian
virtues of benevolence, integrity, and truth. His funeral will take
place on Sunday afternoon, the 27th inst., from his late residence No.
13 Grove Street, at half-past four o’clock.”

He had issue:

       ii SARAH^7, who married _Isaac Bluxome_, and had issue (1) _John
            De Camp_^8; (2) Sara; (3) Minnie.

      iii SUSAN^7, who married Major _William M. O’Hara_, and had issue
            (1) _William J._^8 (2) _Helen_^8 and (3) _Charles O’Hara_^8.

 48    iv SAMUEL^7 G. J.

29 DAVID^6 DE CAMP (Henry^5, Lambert^4, Henry^3, Laurence^2, John^1)
lived at Sucsunna Plains, N. J., and married _Mary Martin_ of Newton, N.
J. Had issue:

 49     i LEWIS MARTIN^7, b. 1787.

 50    ii JEREMIAH^7.

 51   iii JAMES^7.

       iv CHARLOTTE^7, d. unmarried in 1879 at Newark, N. J.

        v ELIZA^7, d. unmarried.

       vi MARY^7, who married Hezekiah Smith of Chester, N. J., and had
            issue (1) Libbie^8.

      vii LYDIA ANN^7, who married Jeline Ross of Newark N. J., and had
            issue (1) Morris De Camp.^8

30 MOSES^6 DE CAMP[14] (Henry^5, Lambert^4, Henry^3, Laurence^2, John^1)
lived and died near Chester, N. J. Had issue:

        i HENRY^7.

       ii MARY^7, who married —— Taylor, and had issue (1) Mary; (2)
            Malvina; (3) Emma.

      iii JOHN^7.

       iv ELIZA^7, who married —— Inglehart, and had issue (1) Morris De
            Camp.

        v JOSEPH.

       vi MORRIS.

31 LEMUEL^6 DE CAMP (_Henry_^5, _Lambert_^4, _Henry_^3, _Laurence_^2,
_John_^1) had a forge at Waterloo, N. J. He married _Hannah L. Salmon_,
and died about 1818. His widow left a will dated 18th August, 1845, and
proved 20 March, 1847, in Sussex Co. Surrogate’s Office; recorded in
Book D. of Wills, page 75. She calls herself of Newton, Sussex Co., N.
J., widow of Lemuel De Camp and mentions son Albert L. De Camp; daughter
Amanda M. De Camp, and daughter Caroline, the wife of David C. White.
Names son Albert L. De Camp and friend Simeon McCoy executors, and
witnesses were John S. Broduck, Jane Broduck, and Martin Ryerson.

Issue of Lemuel De Camp were as follows:

       ii AMANDA^7 M., b. 1810; married Rev. Peter Kanouse; d. May 1861,
            and had issue (1) _Dora_; (2) _Charles_; (3) _Adelaide_; (4)
            _William_; (5) _Malvina_.

 52   iii ALBERT L., b. 1812.

32 MORRIS^6 DE CAMP (Henry^5, Lambert^4, Henry^3, Laurence^2, John^1)
was born about 1773 and at one time lived at Troy, N. Y., where he
deeded real estate. He married _Caty_ —— (some say Kate De Camp) and
died 1838, leaving a will dated 17 May, 1838, proved 7 Dec. 1844, in N.
Y. Co. Surrogate’s Office, in which is mentioned a wife Caty; daughter
Merinda, wife of Jonathan Hand; daughter Elizabeth, wife of Joseph S.
Barker; grandson Morris D’C. Barker. His widow Kate De Camp married (2d)
—— Canfield. In N. Y. Post, 9th July 1844, is notice: “On Monday morning
July 8th Maurice (sic.) D’Camp, Esq., in the 71st year of his age.”

His children were:

        i MERINDA^7.

       ii ELIZABETH^7, who married _Joseph S. Barker_ of Sing Sing, N.
            Y., and had issue _Morris De Camp_^8, _Charles_^8,
            _Charlotte_^8.

      iii [15]WARREN, d. young and unmarried.

       iv [15]MORRIS, d. young and unmarried.

33 WILLIAM^6 DE CAMP (_Lambert_^5, _Lambert_^4, _Henry_^3, _Laurence_^2,
_John_^1). He married _Ann_ ——, and had issue:

       ii WILLIAM E.^7, who married _Mary_ ——, and lived in Essex Co.,
            N. J.

      iii PHILEMON E.^7

 53    iv GIDEON L.^7

34 BENJAMIN^6 DE CAMP (Lambert^5, Lambert^4, Henry^3, Laurence^2,
John^1), was born 1773 and died 1825 March 10. He married _Elizabeth_
——, born 1775 June 16; died 1838 June 12, and had issue:

 54     i JOB^7, b. 1796.

       ii VIOLETTA^7, b. 1811, June 26; d. 1891, Aug. 11; married _David
            Coles_.

      iii CHARITY^7, married _Mindort F. Klein_.

       iv ELIZA^7.

        v MARY^7, married —— _Marsh_.

       vi DENNIS^7.

      vii RANDOLPH^7.

     viii LAMBERT^7, b. 1812; d. 1836, July 6.

35 ELIPHALET^6 DE CAMP (_James_^5, _Lambert_^4, _Henry_^3, _Laurence_^2,
_John_^1). He was born in 1768, probably near Westfield, N. J., but
lived at Elizabeth, N. J., where he owned land. Proof of his being a son
of James De Camp is found in a deed of Abraham Reynolds, sheriff to
Zophar Hatfield, dated 17th September, 1823, and recorded in Newark
Register’s Office, in Book P2, page 542, in which he is called “a
natural son of James De Camp.” He died on 19th October, 1845, aged 77
years, and administration on his estate was granted to Thomas J. De Camp
and Amos Morse on 27th Oct. 1845, recorded in Newark Probate Office in
Book B, page 133. His issue is set out in a deed dated 25 May, 1846, and
recorded in Newark Register’s Office in 1848 in Book X6 of Deeds, page
359, dividing his estate among his heirs, and is as follows:

       ii THOMAS J.^7

      iii RACHEL^7, b. 1792; d. 25 Feb. 1880. She married her cousin
            _Job^7 De Camp_ (_Benjamin_^6, _Lambert_^5, _Lambert_^4,
            _Henry_^3, _Laurence_^2, _John_^1), and had issue.

       iv MARIE^7, d. young.
            FANNY^7, who married _Crowel Hand_.

        v HETTY^7, who married _Ellis Terrill_.

       vi JOHN^7.

 55   vii RALPH^7.

     viii MOSES^7.

36 STEPHEN^6 DE CAMP (_James_^5, _Lambert_^4, _Henry_^3, _Laurence_^2,
_John_^1) was born 1782 in Essex Co., N. J. He removed to New York and
married _Abigail_ ——. He died in 1825, and his burial is recorded in the
Trinity Church records as taking place in St. John’s Churchyard on 8
Dec. 1825, aged 43. His only known issue was:

        i AMELIA^7, b. 1813, buried in St. John’s Churchyard 3 April,
            1829, aged 16 (Trinity Church Records).

37 DAVID^6 DE CAMP (_David_^5, _Lambert_^4, _Henry_^3, _Laurence_^2,
_John_^1). He married _Sarah Williams_, daughter of Enoch Williams (Deed
C3–375), was of Rahway, N. J., and died 1846, leaving a will not dated,
but proved 1846, Feb. 23, in Liber H. of Wills, page 318, Newark Probate
Office, in which he mentions a son David D’Camp (sic), as sole heir, and
if David die then his estate is to go to his nephew David Arnold and
niece Phebe Arnold. The executor was Hugh Hartshorne. The witnesses were
Elizabeth Hartshorne, Hugh H. Bowne, and Thomas F. Cook. He must have
had a son Elias for this grandson is mentioned in his father’s will (see
_ante_). Some mention is made of him in deeds recorded in Newark
Register’s Office, A3–87; C3–375. His issue then was:

        i ELIAS^7
       ii DAVID^7.

38[16]EZEKIEL^6 DE CAMP (Moses^5, Lambert^4, Henry^3, Laurence^2,
John^1) was born at Westfield, N. J., on 4th October, 1779, and married
on 22 July, 1799, _Mary Baker_, daughter of Daniel and Margaret (Osborn)
Baker of Westfield, N. J., who was born 25 June 1780. In 1811 he made a
journey to Ohio to select his future home in Butler county, and removed
there with his father and mother and family in September 1812. The
emigrant party consisted of Moses De Camp aged 77; Sarah, his wife, aged
65; Ezekiel, his son, aged 33; Mary, his wife, aged 32, and 10 children,
the youngest, Henry, being a babe of six weeks. He died 25 October,
1860, aged 81 years, his wife having died 1 December, 1859, aged 80
years. The children of Ezekiel and Mary (Baker) De Camp were as follows:

        i PHEBE^7, b. 16 October, 1799.

       ii HANNAH^7, b. 17 November, 1800.

      iii DAVID^7, b. 1 August, 1802.

       iv WALTER^7, b. 25 September, 1803.

        v HIRAM^7, b. 1 February, 1805.

       vi JOHN^7, b. 15 November, 1806.

      vii HARVEY^7, b. 25 November, 1807.

     viii JOSEPH^7, b. 2 August, 1809.

       ix MARGARET^7, b. 23 December, 1810.

        x HENRY^7, b. 9 August, 1812.

       xi DANIEL^7, b. 28 December, 1813.

      xii JAMES^7, b. 7 May, 1815.

     xiii MOSES^7, } twins, b. 11 December, 1816; Moses

      xiv SARAH^7, } died 17 Feb’y, 1827, aged 10 years, 2 months and 6
            days.

       xv MARY^, b. 18 June, 1818.

      xvi LAMBERT^7, b. 17 January, 1820.

     xvii JOB^7, b. 11 March, 1822.

39 ZACHARIAH^6 DE CAMP (Enoch^5, Henry^4, Henry^3, Laurence^2, John^1)
of Chester, N. J., was born 16 January, 1780, and died 4 June, 1840. He
married (1st) on 7 November, 1801, _Experience Halsey_, b. 23 December,
1782; d. 18 December, 1831, said to have been from Long Island. He
married (2d) _Eliza Stout_, a daughter of Thomas Stout of Chester, N. J.
He left a will dated 15 May, 1840, proved 15 June, 1840, at Morristown
Probate Office. In it he mentions below named children, probably by his
first wife, and names John Van Doren as executor.

 56     i MOSES HALSEY^7, b. 29 Jan. 1803.
 57    ii DAVID SCHUYLER^7, b. 5 May 1804.
      iii JOHN C.^7, resided at Chester Cross Roads, N. J.
       iv CHARLES S.^7
        v EXPERIENCE ANN^7.

40[17] GIDEON^6 DE CAMP (Morris^5, John^4, Henry^3, Laurence^2, John^1)
born 1744 at Westfield, N. J. He was a physician and owned lands near
Westfield, N. J. He is buried on the road between Westfield and Rahway,
N. J., in a wood, and his tombstone reads “died December 18, 1815, age
71.” He left a will probated at Newark, N. J. It is dated 6 Dec. 1813,
proved 13 Jan. 1816, in Liber B. of Wills, page 189, and states he was
of Essex County, N. J.; mention is made of 4 grandchildren, viz. John,
Louisa, Gideon, and Juliet De Hart. The codicil, dated 23 Feb. 1814,
strikes out the name of David S. Craig as executor. The executors under
the will were Ralph Phillips of Maidenhead, Hunt Co., N. J., and David
S. Craig of Rahway, N. J. Witnesses were Fletcher M. Brooke, Lewis
Terrill, and Noah Frazee. The will was proved a second time on 3d June,
1816, Liber B. of Wills, page 189, as at the time of the first probate
Ralph Phillips was out of the State of New Jersey.

His only known issue was:

        i DAUGHTER^7, who married —— _De Hart_, and had issue (1)
            _John_^8; (2) _Louisa_^8; (3) _Gideon_^8; (4) _Juliet_^8.

41 BENJAMIN^6 DE CAMP (_John_^5, _Benjamin_^4, _Henry_^3 _Laurence_^2,
_John_^1), must have been born at or near Woodbridge, N. J., and removed
thence to Somerville, Somerset Co., N. J., where he married _Dina
Hardenburgh_ daughter of Joshua Hardenburgh (?) and had known issue as
recorded in Dutch Church of Somerville:

        i JOHN^7, b. 1803, Dec. 11, at Somerville, N. J.

42 ABRAM^6 DE CAMP (Henry^5, Gideon^4, Gideon^3, Laurence^2, John^1). He
married (1st) _Evanna Tout_. Her first name was probably Yvonne, she
being of French descent and related to the Mapes family. He had no issue
by her. By order recorded 1829, Dec. 31, at Troy, he was appointed
guardian of Mary Eliza Coe, infant daughter of Edward M. Coe, son of
Rev. Jonas Coe, D. D. The letters of guardianship were recorded 1830,
June 7, and the age of the infant is stated therein to be one year, as
is certified by Eve Ripley (_i. e._, the former widow of Robert
McCullen, of Troy, N. Y.). Abram De Camp was for some time engaged in
stationery business in Wall street, but failed and retired to
Washington, where he lived with his brother Sidney. He died at
Washington and is buried in Glenwood Cemetery, just north of that city.

He married (2d) _Ann Perrot_, daughter of John and Eliza (Lowey) Perrot,
b. 1806, Aug. 5; d. 1886, March 24. He separated from his second wife
about 1840. By her he had issue:

 58     i JOHN HENRY^7.

       ii ANNE^7, who married (1st) George Hegeman and had issue ——
            Hegeman^8, a daughter. She married (2d) Henry Kirke Porter,
            of Pittsburgh, Pa. No issue by second husband.

      iii HARRIET^7.

43 HENRY^6 DE CAMP (Henry^5, Gideon^4; Gideon^3, Laurence^2, John^1) was
born 1804, Oct., in Troy, N. Y., and died 1891, June 14, in Baltimore,
Md. He left home when eighteen years of age, and followed the sea for
thirteen years. About 1850 he went to Washington, D. C., where he lived
for some years. He married, 1864, July 12, _Elizabeth M. Everitt_,
daughter of Jonathan and Charity (Skillman) Everitt, of New Jersey; b.
1824; d. 1890, Sept., but had no issue. His wife and the wife of his
brother Sidney were sisters.

44 SIDNEY^6 DE CAMP (Henry^5, Gideon^4, Gideon^3, Laurence^2, John^1)
was born 1806, May 16, at Troy, N. Y.; died 1863, Dec., at Baltimore,
Md. He left Troy when nineteen years of age and went to Baltimore, where
he engaged in the bookbinding business. He remained in Baltimore a few
years, then went to Philadelphia, Pa., where he remained until 1841–42.
He then removed to Washington, D. C., and became a prominent government
bookbinder. In 1862 he removed to Baltimore, and died there. He married
_Mary Jaline Everitt_, daughter of Jonathan and Charity (Skillman)
Everitt; b. 1816, April 15, and now living in Baltimore, Md. The Everitt
family lived in Sussex Co,, N. J., and removed to Philadelphia, Pa.,
about 1820. He had issue:

        i ELIZA JANE^7, b. 1838, Jan. 1; married (1st) 1857, May 12,
            _Henry D. Morgan_, and had issue (1) _Mary Lizzie_^8, b.
            1858, Sept.; d. 1861, Feb. Her first husband died in 1859,
            and she married (2d) 1860, June 18, _Charles C. Franklin_,
            and had issue (2) _Charles C._^8, b. 1861, March 17; (3)
            _Mary Lizzie_^8, b. 1862, April; d. 1862, Dec. 8. Her second
            husband was in the Confederate army, and died in 1863. She
            then married (3d), 1871, June 21, _Charles W. Blake_, and
            had issue (4) _William S._^8, b. 1874, Sept. 6.

       ii ELIZABETH EVERITT^7, b. 1839, April 14; d. 1862, July 16,
            unmarried.

      iii HENRY EVERITT^7, b. 1840, Dec. 11; d. 1842, July 6.

       iv MARY^7, b. 1843, Jan. 28; d. 1843, Aug. 7.

        v CATHERINE SMITH^7, b. 1844, Aug. 26; married 1859, Dec. 3,
            _Charles A. Chipley_, and had issue (1) _Sidney De Camp_^8,
            b. 1861; d. 1862; (2) _Elizabeth De Camp_^8, b. 1862, Feb.
            18; (3) _Charles A.^8, Jr._, b. 1869, Jan. 31; (4) _Sara
            Miranda_^8, b. 1872, Aug. 27.

       vi MARY EMMA^7, b. 1846, Oct. 16; d. 1884, Jan. 27; married,
            1873, Nov. 25, _John A. Stephens_, of Baltimore, Md., and
            had issue (1) _Sadie Vesey_^8, b. 1878, March 18.

      vii CORA VICTORINE^7, b. 1849, Dec. 2, married at Baltimore, 1865,
            Aug. 26, _Charles B. Drury_, who d. 1883, March 11, and had
            issue (1) _Cora De Camp_^8, b. 1867, Jan. 30; (2) _Elizabeth
            Chase_^8, b. 1869, Jan. 18; (3) _Mary_^8, b. 1872, May 25;
            (4) _Richard Lawson_^8, b. 1875, Feb. 25.

     viii ADELINE HOWELL^7, b. 1852, March; d. 1858, Jan. 18.

       ix EVANNA^7, } twins, b. 1854. Jan. 27; Evanna

        x ALMIRA^7, } married _William A. Ross_, but has no issue.

       xi SIDNEY^7, b. 1857, March 17; d. 1857, Dec. 3.

45 JOHN^7 DE CAMP (_Moses_^6, _Aaron_^5, _Aaron_^4, _John_^3,
_Laurence_^2, _John_^1) was of East Orange, N. J. He married _Jane_ ——,
and had known issue:

 59     i SAMUEL W.^8
       ii DANIEL^8.
      iii SARAH CATHERINE^8, who married William R. Vandenhoof.

46 TIMOTHY^7 DE CAMP (Benjamin^6, Aaron^5, Aaron^4, John^3, Laurence^2,
John^1) probably lived at Hanover, N. J., and married on 4 December,
1802, in First Presbyterian Church, at Morristown, N. J., _Jane Humes_,
of Hanover, N. J. Had issue:

        i ELIZA^8, b. 4 October, 1803; d. 12 September, 1811.
       ii LEWIS^8 ALLEN, b. May, 1805; d. 8 September, 1811.
      iii JAMES^8 HUMES, b. 28 Aug., 1806; d. 11 September, 1811.
       iv TIMOTHY^8, 1 April, 1809; d. 7 August, 1810.

47 CHILLION FORD^7 DE CAMP (_Joseph_^6, _Henry_^5, _Lambert_^4,
_Henry_^3, _Laurence_^2, _John_^1) was born 1793, and died 1870. He
married three times: (1st) _Lucy Allen_; (2d) _Electa Hird_; (3d) _Lydia
Brown_, and had issue:

                             BY FIRST WIFE.
        i WILLIAM^8, unmarried.

       ii CHARLES^8, married and living at Orange, N. J.

      iii JANE^8, who married _Halsey Conger_, and had thirteen
            children.

       iv MARIA^8, who married _Henry Johnson_ and lived in Newark, N.
            J.

        v ELIZA^8, who married —— _Losey_ and lived in New York, N. Y.

       vi CORNELIA^8, who married —— _Burnett_.


                             BY SECOND WIFE.
      vii ELECTA^8, died unmarried.

     viii WHITFIELD^8, who married _Louisa Hird_, had issue, _a son_.


                             BY THIRD WIFE.
       ix ELLA^8, who married _Halsey Couse_.

        x LAURA^8, who married _Henry Abbott_, and had issue (1)
            _Elsie_.

       xi WALTER B.^8, who married _Emma Thorburn_, and had issue, _a
            daughter_.

      xii ADELAIDE^8.

48 SAMUEL G. J^7. DE CAMP (_John_^6, _Henry_^5, _Lambert_^4, _Henry_^3,
_Laurence_^2, _John_^1) was a surgeon in U. S. Army. He married (1st)
_Nancy Wood_, daughter of Clement Wood, and (2d) _Caroline L.
Hitchcock_. His second wife died in 1863, leaving a will recorded at
Albany, N. Y., on 28 July, 1863, in which she states herself to be the
wife of Dr. Samuel G. J. De Camp, now residing at Watervliet Arsenal,
and mentions her daughter, Anna Erwin De Camp, and her brothers, Ethan
A. and Henry Hitchcock. His known issue were:

                             BY FIRST WIFE.
 60     i JOHN^8, b. 1812; d. 1875, June 25.
       ii SARAH BRANDEGEE^8, d. 1869.
      iii MARIA MORRIS^8.
       iv LAURA WALLEN^8.
        v JAMES^8.

                             BY SECOND WIFE.
       vi ANNA ERWIN^8.

49 LEWIS MARTIN^7 DE CAMP (_David_^6, _Henry_^5, _Lambert_^4, _Henry_^3,
_Laurence_^2, _John_^1) was born 1787, and died 1859. He married _Mary
Hinchman Jessop_, widow of Jeremiah Jessop and daughter of —— Hinchman,
b. 1786; d. 1867, and had issue:

        i CATHERINE LEIGH^8, b. 1823; d. 1880, in Berkshire Valley. She
            married, in Newton, N. J., _E. M. Couse_, of Laurel Hill,
            near Fahsburg, Va., and had issue (1) _Mary E._^9, b. 1844,
            who married, 1866, _D. W. Wilson_, of Elgin, Ill.; (2) _Ida
            Caroline_^9, b. 1847; (3) _William Lewis_^9, b. 1850; (4)
            _Kate Augusta_^9, b. 1853; (5) _Evalena_^9, b. 1855; (6)
            _Georgiana_^9, b. 1858.

 61    ii WILLIAM HENRY^8, b. 1825, in Berkshire Valley.

      iii MARY ELIZABETH^8, b. 1831, in Berkshire Valley; d. 1881. She
            married, 1861, _John Heath_ Lyon, of Lyons, N. J.

50 JEREMIAH^7 DE CAMP (_David_^6, _Henry_^5, _Lambert_^4, _Henry_^3,
_Laurence_^2, _John_^1) married, at Succasunna Plains, N. J., _Harriet
Dickinson_, and had issue:

       ii EUGENE^8.

 62   iii WILLIAM^8.

 63    iv EDWARD^8.

        v LAURA^8.

       vi CHARLES^8, b. 1853; d. about 1868, at Newark, N. J.,
            unmarried.

51 JAMES^7 DE CAMP (_David_^6, _Henry_^5, _Lambert_^4, _Henry_^3,
_Laurence_^2, _John_^1) married _Nancy Meeker_, of Berkshire Valley, N.
J., and had issue:

        i MARCUS^8, b. 1850, at Succasunna, N. J., died at Yankton, S.
            D., Nov. 27, 1898, aged 48 years 7 months, and 16 days.

       ii FELIX^8.

      iii DAVID^8.

       iv JAMES^8.

        v HENRIETTA^8.

       vi HELEN^8.

      vii MARY^8.

     viii KATE^8.

52 ALBERT L.^7 DE CAMP (_Lemuel_^6, _Henry_^5, _Lambert_^4, _Henry_^3,
_Laurence_^2, _John_^1) died 1890; married _Martha A. Dodge_, of New
York city, and had issue:

        i ROBERT^8, unmarried.
       ii GROSVENOR^8, married, but died soon after.

53 _Gideon L.^7 De Camp_ (William^6, Lambert^5, Lambert^4, Henry^3,
Laurence^2, John^1), of Woodbridge, N. J., married _Elizabeth Marsh_,
and died about 1851, leaving a will dated 1850, Oct. 22, proved 1851,
Jan. 6, recorded Liber. E, p. 279, at New Brunswick, N. J., Probate
Office. In it he mentions father, William D’Camp; mother, Nancy D’Camp;
a brother, Philemon E. D’Camp, and his two children, Charles Marsh
D’Camp and Lambert D’Camp, all deceased, for whom he directs his
executors to provide tombstones. Mentions wife, Elizabeth (daughter of
Charles Marsh), and five children, viz., Emily, Sarah, William, Almira
and George Washington D’Camp, and divides estate equally among them when
they attain twenty-one years. Names as executors his father-in-law,
Charles Marsh, and John S. Marsh. Witnesses, John Wainwright, Phineas
Flatt, and Freeman Force.

The children of Gideon L. and Elizabeth (Marsh) De Camp:

 64   vii GEORGE WASHINGTON^8.

54 JOB^7 DE CAMP (_Benjamin_^6, _Lambert_^5, _Lambert_^4, _Henry_^3,
_Laurence_^2, _John_^1) was born 1796, and died 1839, June 7. He married
his cousin, _Rachel De Camp_, daughter of Eliphalet and Margaret De
Camp, who was born 1792, and died 1880, Feb. 25. Administration on his
estate was granted in Newark Probate Office on 28th June, 1839. Liber B,
p. 17, to Rachel De Camp. His issue were:

       ii FANNY MARIE^8.
 65   iii MAURICE FRAZEE^8.
       iv MARY ELIZABETH^8.
        v CALEB^8.

55 RALPH^7 DE CAMP (_Eliphalet_^6, _James_^5, _Lambert_^4, _Henry_^3,
_Laurence_^2, _John_^1). He was born at or near Rahway, N. J., and
married there _Mary Lee_, perhaps a daughter of that Samuel Lee, to whom
he deeded Westfield, N. J., property on 24 February, 1849 (recorded in
Newark Register’s Office, in Book Y 6 of Deeds, page 341). He removed to
Aurelius, Cayuga Co., N. Y., about 1849, and had issue (1) OSCAR^8, b.
near Cayuga, N. Y.; d. 1873; m. Olivia.

56 MOSES HALSEY^7 DE CAMP (_Zachariah_^6, _Enoch_^5, _Henry_^4,
_Henry_^3, _Laurence_^2, _John_^1). He lived at Chester, N. J., and died
there in 1886, leaving a will dated 28 Jan., 1878, proved and recorded
at Morristown, N. J., on 3 May, 1886, in which he mentions his wife,
Beulah, and children of his daughter, Mrs. Warner (Experience Ann, who
married Henry Warner); children of his daughter, Mrs. Smith, and
children of his daughter, Mrs. Collis. He married _Beulah Warner_, who
died 1893, leaving a will dated 1 May. 1890, recorded and proved at
Morristown, N. J., 1 May, 1893, in which he mentions children and
grandchildren as follows. His issue were:

        i EXPERIENCE ANN^8 who married _Henry Warner_, and had issue (1)
            _Beulah M._; (2) _Ann L._; (3) _William Halsey_; (4) _Henry
            Dudley_; (5) _H. Archie_, (6) _Melissa L._, of Newark, N. J.

       ii DAUGHTER^8, who married —— _Smith_, and had issue (1) _Beulah
            M._

      iii DAUGHTER^8 who married —— _Collis_, and had issue (1) _Louisa
            W._

57 DAVID^7 SCHUYLER DE CAMP (Zachariah^6, Enoch^5, Henry^4, Henry^3,
Laurence^2, John^1) married _Rebecca Horton_, daughter of Hiram and Mary
(Rose) Horton, b. 1809, Dec. 29. (Early Germans of N. J., by Chambers.)
His wife left a will dated 1878, March 29, proved 1879, Jan. 11, at
Morristown, N. J., in which she states she is of Chester, N. J., and the
widow of David S. De Camp, deceased. She mentions below named children,
and Frank H., son of Silas O. De Camp, and Alfred E., son of David S. De
Camp, and names son Stephen H. De Camp, of Syracuse, N. Y., executor.
She made a codicil to will, dated 1879, Nov. 30.

The children of David S. and Rebecca (Horton) De Camp, were:

        i HARRIET^8, who married _William Dietz_.

       ii ALFRED EUGENE^8, who married _Kate Ming_, daughter of Chas.
            and Susan Ming.

      iii ABBY LOUISA^8 unmarried.

       iv STEPHEN HALSEY^8 married _Catharine Crouse_.

        v SILAS O^8., married _Emma Hall_, of Denville, and had son (1)
            _Frank H_^9.

       vi HIRAM H^8., married _Althea Lane_, daughter of Abram and Sarah
            Lane.

      vii DAVID S^8., had son (i) _Alfred E._^9.

     viii ALONZO D^8., married _Lauretta Dixon_, daughter of Cyrus
            Dixon, of N. Y.

       ix MARY EUGENE^8, died at age of 8 years.

58 JOHN HENRY^7 DE CAMP (_Abram_^6, _Henry_^5, _Gideon_^4, _Gideon_^3,
_Laurence_^2, _John_^1) married and had issue:

        i HARRIET, who married _Charles W. Minor_, of New York city, and
            died at Bad Nauheim, Germany, on July 5, 1900.

       ii JOHN P., who died unmarried at Tarrytown, N. Y., on November
            14, 1897.

59 SAMUEL W.^8 DE CAMP (_John_^7, _Moses_^6, _Aaron_^5, _Aaron_^4,
_John_^3, _Laurence_^2, _John_^1) was of Caldwell, N. J. He must have
died unmarried in 1878, leaving a will dated 17 Feb., 1878, proved 14
March, 1878, recorded in Book V. of Wills, page 419, Newark Probate
Office, in which he calls himself of Caldwell, N. J. He further mentions
father, John De Camp, of East Orange; mother, Jane, and divides his
estate between his brother Daniel and his sister, Sarah Catherine
Vandenhoof, wife of Wm. R. Vandenhoof. He names as executor his brother
Daniel De Camp, and witnesses of will were Daniel Griffith and John
McChesney.

60 JOHN DE CAMP^8 (_Samuel^7 G. J._, _John_^6, _Henry_^5, _Lambert_^4,
_Henry_^3, _Laurence_^2, _John_^1) was born in New Jersey in 1812, and
died at Burlington, N. J., on 25th June, 1875. He was a U. S. naval
officer, being appointed to the navy from Florida in October, 1827. He
served on the sloop “Vandalia,” of the Brazil squadron, in 1829–30, and
received his promotion as past midshipman in 1833. He was in the West
India squadron until 1837, and was commissioned lieutenant in 1838, and
served on the frigate “Constitution” in 1854, along the African coast.
He was commissioned commander in 1855, and served in the navy yard at
New York as lighthouse inspector and as commander of the store ship
“Relief.” He was in command of the steam sloop “Iroquois” at the attack
upon Forts Jackson and St. Philip, and the capture of New Orleans
(April, 1862), and participated in various actions on the Mississippi,
including Vicksburg, while in command of the “Wissahickon.” He was
commissioned captain in 1862, and was in the South Atlantic squadron,
1863–64; was promoted to commodore in 1866; commanded the receiving ship
“Potomac,” 1868–69, and was retired in 1870 with the rank of
rear-admiral. (Appleton’s Biographical Encyclopœdia.) He married (1st)
_Mary Augusta Green_, d. June, 1843, and (2), on 14 July, 1846, _Laura
L. Wood_, born 1821, Aug. 13; died 1884, April 30. He had issue:

                             BY FIRST WIFE.
        i A SON^9, who died in infancy.

       ii A SON^9, who died in infancy.

      iii MARY^9, b. 1843, June 17, who married Robert Lenox Banks, of
            Albany, N. Y.


                             BY SECOND WIFE.
 66    iv JAMES^9, b. May, 1847.

 67     v EDWARD WOOD^9, b. Jan., 1849; d. Sept., 1886, unmarried.

       vi MARIA M.^9, b. 1853, Feb. 14, unmarried.

61 WILLIAM HENRY^8 DE CAMP (_Lewis Martin_^7, _David_^6, _Henry_^5,
_Lambert_^4, _Henry_^3, _Laurence_^2, _John_^1) was born in Berkshire
Valley, N. J., 1825 and died at Athenia, Passaic Co., N. J., on 19
April, 1900, aged 76 years. He married at Berkshire Valley _Phœbe Ann
Dickerson_ of that place, and had issue:

 68    ii WALTER CLARENCE^9.
 69   iii ERNEST LEWIS^9.

62 WILLIAM^8 DE CAMP (_Jeremiah_^7, _David_^6, _Henry_^5, _Lambert_^4,
_Henry_^3, _Laurence_^2, _John_^1) died about 1870. He married _Louise
Pierce_, of Elizabeth, N. J., and had issue:

        i WILLIAM PIERCE^9.
       ii MAUD^9, b. 1869; d. 1887, aged 18 years.

63 EDWARD^8 DE CAMP (_Jeremiah_^7, _David_^6, _Henry_^5, _Lambert_^4,
_Henry_^3, _Laurence_^2, _John_^1), married and had issue:

        i WILLIAM^9, d. 1889.

64 GEORGE WASHINGTON^8 DE CAMP (Gideon^7, L., William^6, Lambert^5,
Lambert^4, Henry^3, Laurence^2, John^1) of Newark, N. J. He died, 1893,
leaving a will dated 1893, Aug. 23, proved 1893, Sept. 20, recorded
Liber R2, p. 327, in Newark Probate Office. Mentions sisters Emma and
Almira. Names as executor his sister Emma. Witnesses: Thomas J. De Witt,
Charles E. Baldwin.

65 MAURICE FRAZEE^8 DE CAMP (_Job_^7, _Benjamin_^6, _Lambert_^5,
_Lambert_^4, _Henry_^3, _Laurence_^2, _John_^1), was born 1829 and died
1889, March, aged 60 years. He is buried in St. George’s Cemetery,
Rahway, N. J. He married _Martha Horton_, and had issue:

        i LAURA A.^9, b. 1849, Nov. 25, who married _Charles V. Munier_,
            and had issue (1) _Vincent M. Munier_^{10}, b 1866, Dec. 2.

66 JAMES^9 DE CAMP (_John_^8, _Samuel G. J._^7, _John_^6, _Henry_^5,
_Lambert_^4, _Henry_^3, _Laurence_^2, _John_^1). He married _Sophia L.
Bacquet_, in March, 1875.

67 EDWARD WOOD^9 DE CAMP (_John_^8, _Samuel G. J._^7, _John_^6,
_Henry_^5, _Lambert_^4, _Henry_^3, _Laurence_^2, _John_^1) died
unmarried at Morristown, N. J., in September, 1886, leaving a will dated
17th September, 1886, proved 29th September, 1886, and recorded at
Morristown Probate Office in which he mentions a brother James,
deceased, and disposes of all his property to his sister Maria. He names
his sister as sole executrix.

68 WALTER CLARENCE^9 DE CAMP (_William H._^8, _Lewis M._^7, _David_^6,
_Henry_^5, _Lambert_^4, _Henry_^3, _Laurence_^2, _John_^1) married 1875,
_Mary Hoagland_ of Millstone, N. J.

69 ERNEST LEWIS^9 DE CAMP (_William H._^8, _Lewis M._^7, _David_^6,
_Henry_^5, _Lambert_^4, _Henry_^3, _Laurence_^2, _John_^1) married
_Clara Robinson_, of Jersey City, N. J., and had issue:

        i ERNEST LEWIS^{10}, Jr., b. 1898.




                                ADDENDA.


The following named De Camps are found among the New Jersey and New York
records, but as yet cannot be linked with any of the Laurent De Camp
descendants. For the sake of completeness, however, the names are given
herein.

JOHN DE CAMP of New Hanover Township, Burlington Co., N. J., died in
1844 leaving a will dated 4 January, 1843, proved 26 November, 1844, in
which he mentions sons _Gideon_, _Joseph_, _John_, _James_; daughters
_Elizabeth Emley_, _Mary Emley_, wife of Thomas Emley; _Rebecca
Hartshorne_, wife of William Hartshorne, Jr.; granddaughters _Charlotte
Emley_, wife of Samuel Emley; _Martha Borden_, wife of Thomas Borden;
and _Lydia Hartshorne_, daughter of a deceased daughter, Lydia
Hartshorne. He names as executor his son Joseph De Camp, and son-in-law
William Hartshorne, Jr., and the witnesses to the will were Hannah
Rogers, John Emley, and Oliver H. P. Emley.

MARGARET DE CAMP married _Stephen Scudder_, both of Rahway, N. J., on
26th March, 1789 (Register of First Presbyterian Church, N. J.)

LAURENCE DE CAMP is mentioned in the will of Joseph Kelsey, Sr., of
Elizabethtown, N. J,, dated 13 February, 1739, proved 1 July, 1742, as
“my cousin.”

MORRIS DE CAMP, Sergeant of Essex Co., N. J., was living 1818, and
mentioned on N. J. Pension Roll of soldiers of Revolutionary War.

EZEKIEL DE CAMP (b. 1741) of Essex Co., N. J., in 1818, was aged 77
years, and died 20 Feb. 1834. N. J. Pension Rolls.

ENOCH DE CAMP (b. 1757) of Morris Co., N. J., died 19 April, 1832, aged
75 years. N. J. Pension Rolls.

MATTHIAS DE CAMP, died 1 July, 1813. N. Y. Pension Rolls.

MATHEW DE CAMP, married _May Mollens_ and had issue _Jenny_, b. 1777,
Mar. 18, at Albany, N. Y.

MATHEW DE CAMP married _Magdalena_ ——, and had issue _William_, b. 1775,
June 13. Sponsors, Simon Van Etten and Elizabeth, his wife.

ELIHU DE CAMP[18] married _Mary Miller_ and died in Brooklyn, N. Y., on
12 Sept. 1846. He is said to have been a cousin to that _Job De Camp_
who died 1844. He left a will dated 6 June, 1846, proved 7 Oct. 1846,
and recorded in Book 10 of Wills, page 20, Kings Co. N. Y. Probate
Office, in which he mentions his wife _Mary_, and son _William M._ of
New Orleans, La. Citations for probate were issued to _William M. De
Camp_ at New Orleans; _Elizabeth De Camp_, at Hudson, N. Y., and _Ann De
Camp_, a minor under 14 years. His widow _Mary (Miller) De Camp_, died
1847, leaving a will dated 13 Oct. 1847, proved 29 Dec. 1847, and
recorded in Book 10 of Wills, page 463, in which she mentioned a son
_William M. De Camp_, daughter _Ann_, and daughter _Elizabeth_, a
lunatic now at Utica Insane Asylum. These De Camps are buried in Trinity
Cemetery at Manhattanville, N. Y. city. The daughter _Ann_ was alive and
unmarried in 1893; _Elizabeth_ married _A. Conklin_, but had no issue
and was living in 1893.

WILLIAM MILLER DE CAMP, b. 1818, married _Sarah Rhodes_ in 1855 at N. Y.
City and had issue _James A._, b. 23 Sept. 1856, who married 1880,
_Margaret Moore_, living at Blue Anchor, N. J., and had issue _Ethel_,
b. 1883; _Jesse Albert_, b. 1886.




                         INDEX TO GIVEN NAMES.


 Aaron, 25, 31, 42.

 Abby, 61.

 Abigail, 31, 41.

 Abraham, 28.

 Abram, 40, 52.

 Adelaide, 56.

 Adelina, 55.

 Aeltie, 23, 25, 28.

 Agidius, 20.

 Albert, 46, 56.

 Alfred, 61.

 Almira, 55, 59.

 Alonzo, 62.

 Altje, 20.

 Amanda, 46.

 Amelia, 49.

 Amy, 25.

 Ann, 68.

 Anna, 57.

 Anne, 53.

 Arent, 22.


 Bastiaan, 25.

 Benjamin, 24, 28, 31, 33, 36, 41, 47, 52, 60.

 Betsy, 35.


 Caleb, 60.

 Caroline, 46.

 Catharine, 4.

 Catharine L., 57.

 Catharine S., 54.

 Catrina, 29.

 Charity, 47.

 Charles, 51, 56, 58.

 Charlotte, 45.

 Chillion, 42, 56.

 Christina, 20, 22, 24, 37.

 Christoffel, 23.

 Clarissa, 37.

 Clark, 33.

 Cora, V., 55.

 Cornelia, 42, 56.


 Daniel, 31, 41, 50, 55.

 David, 23, 26, 32, 34, 35, 45, 49, 50, 51, 58, 61.

 David S., 61, 62.

 Deborah, 32.

 Dennis, 47.

 Docia, 25.


 Edward, 58, 64.

 Edward W., 63, 65.

 Electra, 56.

 Elias, 49.

 Elihu, 68.

 Eliphalet, 33, 48.

 Eliza, 41, 45, 47, 54, 55, 56.

 Elizabeth, 26, 27, 47, 54, 68.

 Elizabeth E., 67.

 Ella, 56.

 Emily, 59.

 Emma, 58.

 Enoch, 27, 35, 68.

 Ernest, 64, 65.

 Ethel, 69.

 Eugene, 58.

 Eva, 30.

 Evanna, 55.

 Eve, 40.

 Ezekiel, 35, 49, 68.

 Experience, 51, 61.


 Fanny, 48, 60.

 Felix, 58.

 Franklin, 64.

 Freelove, 33.


 George W., 59, 64.

 Gerrit, 25, 28.

 Gideon, 23, 24, 25, 29, 30, 36, 51, 67.

 Gideon L., 47, 59.

 Grosvenor, 59.


 Hannah, 35, 50.

 Harriet, 53, 61, 62.

 Harvey, 50.

 Helen, 30, 58.

 Hendrick, 23, 29, 30.

 Hendrik, 20.

 Henrietta, 58.

 Henry, 22, 26, 32, 37, 41, 45, 50, 53, 54.

 Hetty, 48.

 Hiram, 50.

 Hiram, H., 61.


 Isabel, 23.


 James, 26, 33, 42, 45, 50, 56, 57, 58, 63, 65, 67, 69.

 Jane, 43, 56.

 Jannetie, 29.

 Jemima, 25.

 Jeremiah, 45, 58.

 Jesse, 69.

 Joannes, 19.

 Job, 25, 27, 47, 50, 60.

 Johannis, 20, 23.

 Johannes, 21, 30.

 John, 20, 25, 27, 28, 31, 32, 35, 36, 37, 40, 41, 43, 45, 48, 50, 52,
    55, 57, 62, 67.

 John C., 51.

 John H., 53, 62.

 John M., 47.

 John P., 62.

 Jonathan, 42.

 Joseph, 26, 32, 42, 45, 50, 67.


 Kate, 58.

 Ketura, 42.

 Kimble, 35.


 Lambert, 26, 32, 47, 50.

 Lammert, 23.

 Laura, 56, 57, 58.

 Laura A., 64.

 Laurence, 15, 21, 28, 29, 67.

 Laurens, 23, 25.

 Leah, 26.

 Lemuel, 32, 46.

 Lena, 30.

 Levi, 25.

 Lewis, 42, 45, 57.

 Lewis A., 56.

 Lot, 25.

 Lucy, 34.

 Lydia, 45.


 Marcus, 58.

 Margaret, 33, 50, 67.

 Maria, 29, 30, 44, 56, 57.

 Marie, 48, 63.

 Martha, 22.

 Martin, 37.

 Mary, 21, 25, 32, 33, 34, 37, 42, 45, 47, 50, 54, 58, 63.

 Mary E., 25, 58, 60, 62, 67.

 Marytje, 20.

 Mathew, 68.

 Matthias, 68.

 Maud, 64.

 Maurice, 60, 64.

 Mercy, 27.

 Merinda, 47.

 Morris, 28, 32, 36, 45, 46, 47, 67.

 Moses, 25, 26, 31, 32, 34, 41, 45, 48, 50, 51, 60.

 Moses H., 60.


 Nancy, 55.


 Peter, 29.

 Phebe, 27, 42, 50.

 Philemon, 47.


 Rachel, 48.

 Ralph, 48, 60.

 Randolph, 47.

 Rebecca H., 67.

 Rebekah, 35.

 Robert, 59.


 Samuel G. J., 45, 57.

 Samuel W., 55, 62.

 Sarah, 21, 25, 27, 31, 33, 34, 35, 44, 50, 59.

 Sarah B., 57.

 Sarah C., 55.

 Sidney, 41, 53, 55.

 Silas, 32.

 Silas O., 61.

 Stephen, 33, 48.

 Stephen H., 61.

 Styntje, 20.

 Susan, 42, 44.


 Thomas J., 48.

 Timothy, 42, 55, 56.


 Violetta, 47.


 Walter, 34, 50.

 Walter B., 56.

 Walter C., 64, 65.

 Warren, 47.

 Weraichie, 20.

 Whitfield, 56.

 William, 33, 47, 48, 56, 58, 59, 64.

 William E., 47.

 William H., 58, 63.

 William M., 68, 69.

 William P., 64.


 Zachariah, 27, 35, 50.

 Zenas, 42.




                           INDEX TO SURNAMES.


 Abbot, 56.

 Akron, 27.

 Allen, 56.

 Arnold, 34.

 Ayres, 33.


 Bacquet, 65.

 Baker, 50.

 Banks, 63.

 Barker, 47.

 Beach, 31, 42.

 Blake, 54.

 Bloomfield, 33.

 Bluxome, 44.

 Borden, 67.

 Brown, 56.

 Buel, 37.

 Burnett, 56.


 Camp, 15.

 Chipley, 54.

 Christopher, 20.

 Clark, 31.

 Cogswell, 40.

 Coles, 47.

 Collis, 61.

 Conklin, 69.

 Conger, 56.

 Couse, 56, 57.

 Cripps, 41.

 Crouse, 61.


 DeHart, 52.

 Denman, 35.

 Dickerson, 64.

 Dickinson, 58.

 Dietz, 61.

 Dixon, 61.

 Dodge, 59.

 Drury, 55.


 Egmont, 20.

 Ellens, 20.

 Ellis, 24.

 Emley, 67.

 Everitt, 53, 54.


 Franklin, 54.

 Frear, 37.


 Gillman, 27.

 Green, 63.


 Hall, 61.

 Halsey, 51.

 Hand, 35, 48.

 Hardenburgh, 52.

 Hartshorne, 67.

 Heath, 58.

 Hegeman, 53.

 Hetfield, 27.

 Hinchman, 42, 57.

 Hird, 56.

 Hitchcock, 57.

 Hoagland, 65.

 Horton, 61, 64.

 Howells, 41.

 Humes, 55.


 Inglehart, 45.


 Jansen, 16.

 Jessop, 57.

 Johnson, 56.


 Kanouse, 46.

 Kelsey, 67.

 Ketchum, 58.

 Klein, 47.


 Lamars, 22.

 Lane, 61.

 Lee, 60.

 Losey, 56.


 Mandeville, 17, 18.

 Marsh, 47, 59.

 Martin, 45.

 McCullen, 40.

 McKune, 30.

 Meeker, 58.

 Miller, 68.

 Ming, 61.

 Minor, 62.

 Mollens, 68.

 Moore, 69.

 Morgan, 54.

 Morris, 43.

 Munier, 64.


 Newcomb, 22.


 O’Hara, 44.

 Oughtletree, 21.


 Pauer, 22.

 Perrot, 53.

 Pierce, 64.

 Pierson, 35.

 Pope, 53.

 Porter, 53.

 Praal, 21.


 Randolph, 34.

 Rhodes, 69.

 Riker, 31.

 Robinson, 65.

 Roosa, 40.

 Ross, 34, 45, 55.

 Rousseau, 37.


 Salmon, 46.

 Sayres, 35.

 Scudder, 27, 67.

 Shippen, 32.

 Smith, 45, 61.

 Squire, 25.

 Stephens, 55.

 Stout, 51.


 Taylor, 45.

 Terrill, 48.

 Thorburn, 56.

 Tout, 52.

 Tuttle, 42.


 Van Camp, 3, 5, 6, 7.

 Vandenhoof, 55.

 Van Etten, 68.

 Van Namen, 21.

 Van Voorhees, 30.


 Warner, 60, 61.

 White, 46.

 Williams, 41, 49.

 Wood, 57, 63.

-----

Footnote 1:

  NOTE.—(A.) One Gerrit Jansen Van Campen and Machtelt Stoffels, his
  wife, had a child Jan, baptized at Kingston, N. Y., on 18 April 1661.
  Witnesses: Jacob Jansen Van Campen; (undoubtedly a brother), Juriaen
  Westvaal, Marytjen Hansen, and Tryntje Tyssen Bos. From this child Jan
  sprang all the Kingston, N. Y., and Somerville, N. J. families of “Van
  Campen” descendants of which settled in Schawangunk, Minisink, and
  Delaware Water Gap.

  On 11th June 1667 one Jan Smedes sued Gerrit van Campen in the New
  Amsterdam Mayors Court and on 17th December 1667 Bartholomew van den
  Schol sued him in the same court.

  One Gerrit Jansen Van Campen bought a house and lot at Flushing, N.
  Y., of Peter Jansen Schol on 27 November 1688 (Liber C. page 45
  Flushing Register Office). It seems a fair assumption to regard this
  Gerrit Jansen Van Campen of Kingston, New York, and Flushing as one
  and the same person, and that Jacob Jansen Van Campen, who was a
  witness at the baptism at Kingston, 1661, was probably a brother.

  (B.) There was a Gerrit Janzen Van Campen, who had a wife Aeltje
  Pieter Lamberts, and a child Cornelia, baptized at N. Y. Dutch Church
  on 1st January 1655. Witness Emmetie Van der Slüys. The name of the
  witness inclines one to believe that Gerrit Janzen Van Campen was
  closely related to the following party.

  (C.) Lambert Hendrickson Van Campen in 1664 took the oath of
  allegiance at New Amsterdam, and was assessed later as living in
  “Marketfield Alley.” He and his wife Barbetje Barents, had a child
  Hendrick, baptized in N. Y. Dutch Church, 9 November 1661. Witness:
  Marritie Van der Slüys.

  (D.) One Jan Martyn Van Campen had a child Johannis, baptized in N. Y.
  Dutch Church, 4 April 1660. Witnesses: Nicasius de Sille and
  housewife, and Pieter Montfort. This man was in command of a privateer
  and is mentioned in N. Y. Colonial records.

Footnote 2:

  NOTE.—The authorities for above facts are as follows: “La France
  Protestante,” by Hogg; “Bulletin Protestant,” VIII., pp. 444, 454,
  455; “List of French Protestants who were Naturalized in England,” by
  Agnew; “La France Protestante,” by Henri Bordier; “History of the
  Huguenot Refugees in America,” by Charles W. Baird, ed. 1886, pp. 772;
  “Carres d’Hozier,” vol. 148, folio 19; “Histoire de l’Eglise
  Protestante de France,” by Charles Drion, 1885; “Histoire
  Ecclesiastique des Eglises Reformes de France du XVI. au XVIII.
  Siecle,” vol. 2, pp. 483; “Collection of Genealogies of America,” by
  Charles Browning, 1891, pp. 726; “Histoire des Refugies Protestants de
  France,” by Charles Weiss, vol. 1, pp. 367; “Recherche Nobiliaires en
  Normandie, par un Gentilhomme Normand (Amedee du Buisson de Courson),”
  1876, pp. 236.

Footnote 3:

  NOTE.—It has been stated that he was related to that Nicholas Camp who
  went from Wethersfield to Milford, Conn., in 1639, and had a son or a
  grandson, William Campe, who removed to Newark, N. J., about 1665. Not
  the slightest proof of such relationship exists, and upon none of the
  Milford, Conn., or Newark, N. J., records dealing with this Camp
  family does the prefix “De” appear. Moreover, it is well established
  that the Milford Camp family was of English origin.

Footnote 4:

  NOTE.—There were several of the early inhabitants of New Amsterdam who
  were called “Laurens Jansen” on the records, none of whom can be
  identified with our “Laurens Jansen De Camp.” It is interesting,
  however, to trace out such of these “Laurens Jansen” worthies as can
  clearly be followed.

  (A.) In a list of early immigrants the following appears: 1659
  February, In the Faith, “Laurens Janssen from Wormer” (Documentary
  History of New York, vol. III.) The same man appears on the N. Y.
  Dutch Church records as follows: “1666 May 6, Laurens Janzen j. m. van
  Wormer in Noorthollt en Annetje Jans wed^e van Lucas Elderzen.”

  (B.) On the same church record also appears one Laurens Jansen who had
  a wife Marritie Aldrichs, and children baptized Maritje, 1672 April
  16; Annetje 1674 July 8; Albert 1676 November 11; Wyntje 1679 April
  23; Neeltje 1682 May 20; Jan 1685 April 29; Belitje 1693 June 18.

  (C.) In a list of those who took the oath of allegiance at New
  Utrecht, N. Y., on 26th September 1687, appears one “Laurens Janse,
  natur” who also appears later in a list of inhabitants of New Utrecht,
  1698, as having a wife, three children, and two slaves. (Hist. of
  Kings Co.) He it is who, on Brooklyn Dutch Church records appears as
  follows: “1696 Jannetje, child of Laurens Janse and Hendrikje Jacobse;
  Witnesses Stoffel Gerritse and Annetje Jans,” and also in a deed
  “Laurens Jansen and Hendrickse, his wife, both of the Yellowhook, Town
  of New Utrecht, Kings Co. N. Y. to William Matysen of Brooklyn N. Y.,”
  dated 8 May 1708, consideration £412–0 Acknowledged 21 March 17¹⁸⁄₁₉
  recorded in Liber 4 of conveyances page 207 Kings Co. Registers Office
  conveying land on Yellowhook consisting of 66 acres. It is this
  Laurens Jansen that Mr. Tunis G. Bergen confounds with our Laurens
  Janz (de Camp) in his work (Early Settlers of Kings Co.), and has
  erroneously attributed to him several of the children of our Laurens
  Janz de Camp. A careful examination of the names of parents and
  witnesses on the original Flatbush and Brooklyn Dutch Church records
  (Onderdonk’s copy, in Long Island Hist. Soc.) shows the excusable
  error of Mr. Bergen. It is a curious fact, however, that our Laurens
  Janz de Camp and this Laurens Jansen should both live at New Utrecht
  between 1670–1700.

  (D.) Another Laurens Jansen appears indirectly in N. Y. Dutch Church
  records, viz.: “1659 June 19 Jan Gervon van Beaumont in Walslant,
  Soldaet en Lÿsbeth Hendricks Wed^e van Laurens Janzen Deenmarken” (_i.
  e._ a Dane).

  Here, then, we find no less than four other Laurens Jansen in New
  Amsterdam living contemporaneously with our Laurens Jansen De Camp and
  apparently in no way related to him.

Footnote 5:

  NOTE.—Elsie de Mandeville was the daughter of Gillis Jansen de
  Mandeviel from Garder, Holland, who emigrated to New Amsterdam in
  February, 1659, on the ship De Trouw (Faith), a private trader going
  to Manhattan, which sailed 13 February, 1659, with near one hundred
  passengers, but no French except one—“De Ruine.”

  It has been suggested that this single French emigrant was Laurens
  Jansen de Camp “de Rouen,” _i. e._, that the passenger whose name is
  left blank or cannot be deciphered in the original list was “from
  Rouen,” a city in the province of Normandy, France. While there is no
  substantial proof of the above contention it is based upon reason as
  it is known that Laurens Jansen de Camp came from Normandy, and that
  there was a De Camp family in that city, one member of which, Jean de
  Camp, a saddler, was killed there during the St. Bartholomew massacre,
  August 1572.

  The name “Gillis Janzen” erroneously appears in a list of passengers
  on the ship “Moesman” which sailed in April, 1659, and it was long
  supposed that this was another person of the same name. (Doc. Hist. of
  N. Y.) An examination of the original document now on file at Albany,
  N. Y., proves conclusively that this “Gillis Janzen” is recorded not
  as a passenger, but as one itemized in the ship manifest against whom
  a charge is made for a small sum of money advanced by the direction of
  the Dutch West India Company. Gillis Jansen de Mandeville brought over
  with him his wife Altje (Pieters or Hendricks), and four children,
  viz.: (1) Hendrick Gillis, born in Gelderland; (2) Gerretje Gillis;
  (3) Aeltje Gillis; (4) Jan Gillis; and it is presumed that two
  children (5) Tyntje Gillis, and (6) David Gillis, were born later at
  Flatbush, N. Y. He died between 1696–1701, leaving a will dated 15th
  September 1696, proved 1701, in New York County, Liber 2 of Wills,
  page 109. In it he calls himself of Greenwich, N. Y. (an outlying
  district of the city), and mentions his wife Elsie Mandeville, eldest
  son Hendrick, son David, daughter Tynte, wife of Corn Jansen De Veer
  (should be “van der Veer”), daughter Altje, wife of Lawrence Johnson
  (meant for Laurens Jansen de Camp), daughter Perette, wife of Peter
  Mutt; daughter Geritie, wife of John Muthel.

  The original will, on file in the New York Surrogate’s Office, is
  written in English, and bears a wax seal upon which a coat of arms or
  crest can be traced, resembling a horse rampant.

Footnote 6:

  NOTE.—The above Laurence De Camp has been placed as a son of Gideon^3
  (Laurence^2, John^1), but there is no proof that such was his descent.
  The fact of his marriage date being about 1752 would indicate that he
  was not identical with Laurence^4 De Camp (Gideon^3, Laurence^2,
  John^1), baptized at Staten Island 1719, June 7. Witnesses Laurence de
  Camp and Altje Mandeviel. But he has been so placed until future data
  proves this assumption true or erroneous.

Footnote 7:

  NOTE.—The names of children of Aaron^5 De Camp not mentioned in will
  were furnished by Geo. E. De Camp, of Roseland, N. J., his
  great-grandson.

Footnote 8:

  NOTE.—The name of his son Eliphalet^6 is not mentioned in this
  petition, but is learned from a deed of Abraham Reynolds, sheriff, to
  Zophar Hatfield, dated 17 September, 1823, and recorded in Newark, N.
  J., in Book P2, page 542.

Footnote 9:

  NOTE.—He may be identical with that Enoch De Camp of Morris Co., N.
  J., mentioned in N. J. Pension Rolls of Revolutionary War as dying 19
  April, 1832, aged 75 years.

Footnote 10:

  NOTE.—At Troy, N. Y., the Rev. Jonas Coe baptized a Sally de Camp on 2
  November, 1816; a Christina de Camp on 3 August, 1817; he married a
  Cinderilla de Camp to Matthew Nobles on 30 January, 1809.

Footnote 11:

  NOTE.—If he was aged 96 at death it would make his birth 1757. This,
  however, is an error for he was baptized 1764, and probably was born
  at earliest in 1763. The fact is curious as showing how erroneous a
  family statement of old age can be.

Footnote 12:

  NOTE.—There is a curious family tradition that the Rousseaus were
  related to the philosopher Jean Jacques Rousseau of France, and that
  the ancestor of Dr. Alexander Rousseau and the ancestor of Henry De
  Camp came over in the same ship from France. The Rousseau family claim
  that the father of Dr. Alexander Rousseau was born in Bordeaux,
  France, and was the first of his name to come to America. All the “De
  Camp” data, however, is to the contrary, and goes to disprove the
  Rousseau traditions and claims, and the ancestors of Henry De Camp had
  been in America since 1664. There is a strong probability that the
  Troy “Rousseau” family were closely related to, if not identical with
  the great “Roosa” family of Kingston, N. Y., which intermarried
  several times with the Freer family of New Paltz and Kingston, N. Y.,
  and when the members of said “Roosa” family removed to Troy the name
  was corrupted or changed to “Rousseau.” Curiously enough there were
  “Rousseau” and “Rozet” names recorded in N. Y. French Church records
  about 1680, and the Staten Island Dutch Church record contains a birth
  record of a child of one Peter Ruisseau and —— Mesereau. As Staten
  Island Church records contain many De Camp names this is a significant
  coincidence.

Footnote 13:

  NOTE.—Eve De Camp who married Robert McCullen, was the maternal great
  grandmother of the compiler of this record.

Footnote 14:

  NOTE.—Either this Moses (or his cousin) was in Col. Chas. Webb’s 19th
  Cont. Army, Capt. Bostwicks’ Co. who crossed the Delaware Xmas 1776,
  Adjt.-Gen. Johnstone (Com.) Roster of Troops, including some N. J.
  troops. Morris of Westfield, N. J., where Moses came from (in roll is
  called Moses Camp).

Footnote 15:

  NOTE.—These children are given by Miss Wilson of Elgin, Ill., and must
  have died before the will was made.

Footnote 16:

  NOTE.—An admirable compilation of these Ohio De Camp families has been
  made by James M. De Camp, of Cincinnati, Ohio, entitled “Record of the
  Descendants of Ezekiel and Mary Baker De Camp, of Butler County,
  Ohio,” which was printed and published by the Western Methodist Book
  Concern, Cincinnati, O., in 1896 (pages 177), and to which reference
  is directed. As a record has been made of these De Camps of Butler
  Co., the compiler of the within work has not incorporated this branch
  of the general De Camp family into the present compilation.

Footnote 17:

  NOTE.—It may be that this Gideon^6 De Camp was not a son of Morris^5
  De Camp (John^4, Henry^3, Laurence^2, John^1). He could not be
  identical with Gideon^4 (Henry^3, Laurence^2, John^1), baptized 1721,
  May 21, or with Gideon^4 (Gideon^3, Laurence^2, John^1) baptized 1727,
  Oct. 15. He is clearly a grandson of Henry^3 (Laurence^2, John^1), but
  the fact that he was a physician in good circumstances owning several
  valuable tracts of land at Elizabeth, Westfield, and Rahway, is
  indicative that he might not be identical with the Gideon^6 (Morris^5,
  John^4, Henry^3, Laurence^2, John^1) mentioned in Sheriff’s Deed,
  Isaac Ward, Sheriff, to Moses Jacques, dated 11 Jan. 1804, recorded
  Newark Registry in Book H. of Deeds, page 522, as one against whose
  land a judgment writ of fi. fa. was issued and under which the land
  was seized and sold.

Footnote 18:

  NOTE.—The above De Camp line was furnished by James A. De Camp of 95
  Reade street, N. Y. city, who states that perhaps Elihu De Camp was a
  son of Lemuel De Camp. This, however, the lineal descendants of Lemuel
  De Camp deny, and no mention is made of such a son in the will of
  Hannah De Camp, widow of said Lemuel De Camp. Mr. De Camp further
  states that Elihu De Camp had another daughter Mary, but if so she is
  not mentioned in either her father’s or mother’s will. It therefore
  remains to trace out the father of Elihu De Camp.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                          TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES


 1. Silently corrected obvious typographical errors and variations in
      spelling.
 2. Retained archaic, non-standard, and uncertain spellings as printed.
 3. Re-indexed footnotes using numbers and collected together at the end
      of the last chapter.
 4. Enclosed italics font in _underscores_.
 5. Enclosed sans-serif bold font in equals.
 6. Denoted superscripts by a caret before a single superscript
      character or a series of superscripted characters enclosed in
      curly braces, e.g. M^r. or M^{ister}.

